/gid00030/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045 /gid00001
/gid00048/gid00043/gid00031/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00046Citation: Di Lorenzo, R.D.; Serra, I.;
Porro, D.; Branduardi, P . State of the
Art on the Microbial Production of
Industrially Relevant Organic Acids.
Catalysts 2022 ,12, 234. https://
doi.org/10.3390/catal12020234
Academic Editor: Gloria
Fernandez-Lorente
Received: 31 December 2021
Accepted: 15 February 2022
Published: 19 February 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
catalysts
Review
State of the Art on the Microbial Production of Industrially
Relevant Organic Acids
Raffaella Desir èDi Lorenzo1,†, Immacolata Serra1,†, Danilo Porro1,2,* and Paola Branduardi1,*
1Department of Biotechnology and Biosciences, University of Milano Bicocca, Piazza della Scienza 2,
20126 Milano, Italy; raffaella.dilorenzo@unimib.it (R.D.D.L.); immacolata.serra@unimib.it (I.S.)
2Institute of Molecular Bioimaging and Physiology (IBFM), C.N.R. (National Research Council),
Via F.lli Cervi 93, 20090 Segrate, Italy
*Correspondence: danilo.porro@ibfm.cnr.it (D.P .); paola.branduardi@unimib.it (P .B.);
Tel.: +39-02-64483418 (P .B.)
† These authors contributed equally to this work.
Abstract: The industrial relevance of organic acids is high; because of their chemical properties,
they can be used as building blocks as well as single-molecule agents with a huge annual market.
Organic acid chemical platforms can derive from fossil sources by petrochemical reﬁning processes,
but most of them also represent natural metabolites produced by many cells. They are the products,
by-products or co-products of many primary metabolic processes of microbial cells. Thanks to the
potential of microbial cell factories and to the development of industrial biotechnology, from the
last decades of the previous century, the microbial-based production of these molecules has started
to approach the market. This was possible because of a joint effort of microbial biotechnologists
and biochemical and process engineers that boosted natural production up to the titer, yield and
productivity needed to be industrially competitive. More recently, the possibility to utilize renewable
residual biomasses as feedstock not only for biofuels, but also for organic acids production is further
augmenting the sustainability of their production, in a logic of circular bioeconomy. In this review,
we brieﬂy present the latest updates regarding the production of some industrially relevant organic
acids (citric fumaric, itaconic, lactic and succinic acid), discussing the challenges and possible future
developments of successful production.
Keywords: industrial biotechnology; microbial cell factories; organic acids; bioeconomy
1. Introduction
The current industrial system relying on fossil resources is putting at serious risk
our living conditions on the planet. Globally, industry is responsible for over 30% of
all greenhouse gas emissions, mainly represented by CO 2, methane, nitrous oxide and
ﬂuorinated gasses (Sources of Greenhouse Gas Emissions—EPA). Most of these gasses
arise from the production and use of bulk materials such as cement, metals, chemicals and
petrochemical products, as well as from other human activities such as intensive farming.
This description exempliﬁes the consequences of our model of growth, mainly based on a
linear economy, which we thought to be sustainable when it was responding to the needs of
a few billion people. Changing the paradigm from a linear to a circular economy and from
the depletion of resources to exploitation of renewable biomasses is a promising alternative
to reconnect human activities with biogeochemical cycles [1].
About 20 years ago, anticipating the current scenario, the U.S. Department of Energy
(DOE) had identiﬁed twelve building-block chemicals [ 2]. Some years later, lactic acid was
included in the list of the top-ten chemicals (Table 1) [ 3]. About 70% of the listed compounds
are organic acids, which are good examples of building blocks. They ﬁnd applications
in the food & beverage industry, pharmaceutical and cosmetic segments, nutrition, and
animal feed. In particular, chemical industries use organic acids as basic compounds for a
Catalysts 2022 ,12, 234. https://doi.org/10.3390/catal12020234 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/catalystsCatalysts 2022 ,12, 234 2 of 23
wide variety of polymer and solvent production processes. In addition, they can be used as
preservatives, as they can avoid the accumulation of reactive species, which are detrimental
for cellular metabolism, if not for life [ 4,5]. It is not surprising, therefore, that the global
annual organic acids market is projected to grow to about EUR 35 billion in 2027 [6].
Table 1. The 2004 and 2010 “revisited” US Department of Energy’s top Sugar-derived Building Block
Chemicals [2,3].
2004 2010
1,4-Diacids (Succinic, fumaric and malic acids) 3-Hydroxypropionic acid/aldehyde
2,5-Furan dicarboxylic Bio-hydrocarbons
3-Hydroxybutyrolactone Ethanol
3-Hydroxy propionic acid Furans
Aspartic acid Glycerol and derivatives
Glucaric acid Lactic acid
Aylitol/Arabitol Levulinic acid
Glutamic acid Succinic acid
Itaconic acid Sorbitol
Levulinic acid Xylitol
Glycerol
Sorbitol
Interestingly, organic acids can be produced by microbial metabolism, in some cases
naturally, in some others after redirecting the carbon ﬂux towards the desired target(s).
Nonetheless, in terms of the production process, this implies non-trivial assumptions;
the biocatalyst has to be able to transform a given biomass into a speciﬁc product, with
maximized titer, yield and productivity. Furthermore, when commodities are produced,
these parameters have to match with a ﬁnal selling price of about or ideally below EUR
2 per kg [ 7]. Translating this concept into a feasible industrial process implies that the
biocatalyst is forced to produce a non-natural product or, even if natural, to accumulate it
up to non-physiological titer in a non-natural environment, possibly starting from a non-
preferred substrate. In general, the engineered cell factories are proposed to overcome the
main issues occurring during the determination of fermentation performances and, above
all, during the scale-up process. Indeed, one of the main challenges remains the possibility
to obtain strain(s) able to maintain the same performance of the lab-scale productions.
The recent review by Wehrs et al. [ 8], provides a comprehensive analysis toward strains
implementation. In particular, they underline the profound differences of the environment
characterizing commercial-scale bioreactors if compared with laboratory-scale cultivation
systems. The ﬂuctuation and heterogeneity of chemical-physical parameters in large
bioreactors and the genotypic instability or drift observed during long cultivations are
prominent examples of issues that are often neglected or difﬁcult to reproduce at lab-scale.
This gap makes it extremely difﬁcult to predict strains’ performances and consequently,
optimal engineering design.
Despite the fact that these descriptions could lead to the conclusion of an unattainable
goal, thanks to strain and process engineering, an increasing number of microbial processes
are matching scale-up requirements and are emerging as real alternatives to chemical
synthesis at industrial scale. Among the many organic acids that can be obtained by
microorganisms, some have a prominent space in industry, both for tradition and in terms
of competitiveness with traditional production: microbial citric, succinic, lactic, itaconic,
lactobionic, gluconic, fumaric, propionic and acetic acid have approached the market, with
different degrees of penetrance and success. From a chronological point of view, citric acid
was the ﬁrst organic acid industrially produced by a microbial cell factory, followed by
lactic, fumaric, succinic and itaconic acid (Scheme 1).
In this review we present a state of the art on microbial processes for these organic
acids which successfully reached the industrial, commercial, or piloting scale of production.
Companies currently involved in this important challenge for our future will be listedCatalysts 2022 ,12, 234 3 of 23
and, when publicly available, information about the microbial strain currently in use will
be given.
Catalysts 2021 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 25  
 chronological point of view, citric acid was the first organic acid industrially produced 
by a microbial cell factory, followed by lactic, fumaric, succinic and itaconic acid (Scheme 1). 
In this review we present a state of the art on microbial processes for these organic 
acids which successfully reached the industrial, commercial, or piloting scale of 
production. Companies currently involved in this important challenge for our future 
will be listed and, when publicly available, information about the microbial strain currently in use will be given. 
 
Scheme 1. Structures of organic acids produced at pilo t scale by microbial processes and discussed 
in this review. 
2. From First Evidence and Studies to Cu rrent Pilot or Commercial-Scale Production 
2.1. Citric Acid (C 6H8O7, 192.124 g·mol−1, pKa 1 3.13, pKa 2 4.76, pKa3 6.39) 
Citric acid (CA, 2-hydroxy-propane-1,2,3-tr icarboxylic acid) is an intermediate of 
the TCA cycle, and therefore present in virtually all living organisms. 
CA was crystallized for the first time in 1784 by the Swedish chemist Karl Scheele; 
the procedure relied on treatment of the lemon juice with calcium hydroxide to obtain 
calcium citrate, subsequently treated with sulfuric acid to give citric acid [9]. 
Commercial production of citric acid starte d in England in 1826 from unripe Italian 
lemons and the Italian monopoly lasted unt il the late nineteenth century [10]. During 
World War I, export of lemons from Ital y stopped and chemical production from 
glycerol (invented in 1880 by Grimoux and Ad ams [11]) took over. However, due to the 
increased importance of citric acid, ferm entation became competitive enough and 
quickly replaced chemical synthesis. The firs t evidence of microbial production of CA 
dates back to 1893, when Wehmer observed that Penicillium glaucum  could produce citric 
acid from sugars, and two years later, two strains of Penicillium , at that time named 
Citromyces  spp., were isolated [12]. Unfortunately, production with Citromyces  was never 
industrially significant because of the occurrence of contaminations and the long 
fermentation time. Later, Currie in 1917 found that, in various strains of Aspergillus niger,  
the production and secretion of CA was st imulated by growing them in a nutrient 
medium with an initial pH of 2.5–3.5 [13]. Afterwards, in 1919, the pharmaceutical 
company Pfizer, in cooperation with Currie, started the first pilot plant for CA 
production in New York using the fermentation process developed by the chemist and 
named SUCIAC “Sugar Under Conversion to Citric Acid”. Already in mid-1920 the fermentative production of CA surpassed the extractive production from lemons [14,15]. 
Citric acid is a colorless, odorless, and highly water-soluble compound. It is safe for 
human health and the environment and is cons idered almost indispensable and hard to 
substitute in light of the number of applications in very different sectors, such as food 
and beverages, the pharmaceut ical, nutraceutical and cosmetics industries. The great 
majority of the produced citric acid (>65%) is addressed to the food and beverage (F&B) 
Scheme 1. Structures of organic acids produced at pilot scale by microbial processes and discussed
in this review.
2. From First Evidence and Studies to Current Pilot or Commercial-Scale Production
2.1. Citric Acid (C 6H8O7, 192.124 g mol 1, pKa 13.13, pKa 24.76, pKa 36.39)
Citric acid (CA, 2-hydroxy-propane-1,2,3-tricarboxylic acid) is an intermediate of the
TCA cycle, and therefore present in virtually all living organisms.
CA was crystallized for the ﬁrst time in 1784 by the Swedish chemist Karl Scheele; the
procedure relied on treatment of the lemon juice with calcium hydroxide to obtain calcium
citrate, subsequently treated with sulfuric acid to give citric acid [9].
Commercial production of citric acid started in England in 1826 from unripe Italian
lemons and the Italian monopoly lasted until the late nineteenth century [ 10]. During
World War I, export of lemons from Italy stopped and chemical production from glycerol
(invented in 1880 by Grimoux and Adams [ 11]) took over. However, due to the increased
importance of citric acid, fermentation became competitive enough and quickly replaced
chemical synthesis. The ﬁrst evidence of microbial production of CA dates back to 1893,
when Wehmer observed that Penicillium glaucum could produce citric acid from sugars,
and two years later, two strains of Penicillium , at that time named Citromyces spp., were
isolated [ 12]. Unfortunately, production with Citromyces was never industrially signiﬁcant
because of the occurrence of contaminations and the long fermentation time. Later, Currie
in 1917 found that, in various strains of Aspergillus niger, the production and secretion of CA
was stimulated by growing them in a nutrient medium with an initial pH of 2.5–3.5 [13].
Afterwards, in 1919, the pharmaceutical company Pﬁzer, in cooperation with Currie,
started the ﬁrst pilot plant for CA production in New York using the fermentation process
developed by the chemist and named SUCIAC “Sugar Under Conversion to Citric Acid”.
Already in mid-1920 the fermentative production of CA surpassed the extractive production
from lemons [14,15].
Citric acid is a colorless, odorless, and highly water-soluble compound. It is safe for
human health and the environment and is considered almost indispensable and hard to
substitute in light of the number of applications in very different sectors, such as food and
beverages, the pharmaceutical, nutraceutical and cosmetics industries. The great majority
of the produced citric acid (>65%) is addressed to the food and beverage (F&B) sector
where it is employed both as a preservative, thanks to its antioxidant properties, and as
ﬂavor enhancer, used to balance the sweetness of juices, soft drinks and jams [ 16,17]. CA is
certiﬁed as safe (Generally Regarded As Safe) by the Food and Drug Administration in the
US and, together with its salts, is EU-approved as a food additive, being indicated as E330
(citric acid), E331 (sodium citrate), E332 (potassium citrate) and E333 (calcium citrate).
The second main user is the pharmaceutical sector, where CA is used in the preparation
of effervescent tablets, as an anticoagulant in blood transfusions, as a crosslinking agentCatalysts 2022 ,12, 234 4 of 23
in ﬁlms for controlled drug release, and as a palatability enhancer of unpleasant drugs.
Moreover, many APIs are administered in the form of citrate salts [ 17]. Other uses deal
with the detergent, cleaning and polymer industries and environmental remediation, and
have been extensively reviewed by Ciriminna at al. [ 17]. More recently, the use of CA as
one of the components of deep eutectic solvents, promising in the valorization of residual
lignocellulosic biomasses, was proposed [18].
Many microorganisms have been found to produce and accumulate CA. For instance,
some bacteria (such as Bacillus sp.,Arthrobacter sp.,Corynebacterium sp.,Brevibacterium sp.),
yeasts (such as Candida tropicalis ,C. oleophila ,Yarrowia lipolytica, Hansenula anomala) and
ﬁlamentous fungi, mostly belonging to the Aspergillus genus, have been reported as CA
producers [ 19,20]. Despite this wide portfolio, most of these microorganisms are not able
to afford commercially exploitable amounts of CA, and thus, A. niger is still the preferred
workhorse for productive purposes thanks to its robustness in industrial fermentation
conditions. In fact, more than 80% of the world’s citric acid production is derived from
A. niger , although some processes with the yeast Y. lipolytica have been reported [ 21]. The
yeast-based process is, however, plagued by the signiﬁcant production of by-products, such
as isocitric acid, that inevitably lower the ﬁnal product yield.
Citric acid is produced during the TCA cycle through the condensation of oxaloacetate
and acetyl-CoA, resulting in 1 mol of CA from each mol of glucose with a maximum
theoretical yield of 1.067 g/gglucose (Scheme 2). Although the enzymatic activities re-
sponsible for CA production have been identiﬁed and investigated, much less is known
about the biochemical and physiological aspects of CA accumulation [ 22]. In fact, the exact
mechanism underlying CA accumulation in A. niger has not been completely understood;
several hypotheses have been proposed and the debate is still open. It is clear that CA
overﬂow is the result of the synergistic effect of different imbalanced conditions, such as
low pH, low iron concentration, limited availability of nitrogen and phosphate, and excess
oxygen and carbon sources [10].
A. niger can use several substrates for its growth (fructose, glucose, galactose, mannose,
glucose); however, glucose and sucrose, with a slight preference for the latter, are the
preferred carbon sources for CA production [ 10]. Sucrose was demonstrated early on to be
the best carbon source, and CA production still mainly relies on sucrose-based feedstocks.
The use of molasses as residual carbon source substrate was reported already in 1948 at an
industrial scale [23]. However, due to the impellent need to make production of CA more
sustainable and less dependent on sucrose and sucrose-based feedstocks, the use of various
carbon-rich residual biomasses has been evaluated. The exploitation of residual biomasses
with different polymeric compositions is possible thanks to the presence in A. niger of a
pool of extracellular hydrolyzing enzymes, such as invertase, glucoamylase, -glucosidase
and-amylase. Several examples, both in scientiﬁc literature and patents, describe the use
of corn, fruits, lignocellulosic and starchy materials [19,24–28] (Table 2).
The availability of high-producing strains is essential from an industrial point of view
in order to develop highly efﬁcient processes. Until recently, the main strategy for strain
improvement was random chemical or physical mutagenesis followed by screening. These
protocols, although time consuming, successfully allowed the improvement of CA yields.
For instance, a combination of UV exposure, ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS) and acridine
orange treatment to A. niger UMIP 2564 resulted in a 3.2-fold increase in product yield [ 29].
Adeoye et al. reported a 45.97-fold increase in citric acid production by A. niger, FUO 2
strain, subjected to UV radiation and cultivated on cassava peel substrate [30].Catalysts 2022 ,12, 234 5 of 23
Catalysts 2021 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW 5 of 25  
 
 
Scheme 2. Representation of the main metabolic pathwa ys involved in the production of citric, 
fumaric, itaconic, lactic and succinic acid. 
The availability of high-producing strains is essential from an industrial point of 
view in order to develop highly efficient processes. Until recently, the main strategy for 
strain improvement was random chemical or physical mutagenesis followed by 
screening. These protocols, although ti me consuming, successfully allowed the 
improvement of CA yields. Fo r instance, a combination of UV exposure, ethyl methane 
sulfonate (EMS) and acridine orange treatment to A. niger  UMIP 2564 resulted in a 3.2-
fold increase in product yield [29].  Adeoye et al. reported a 45.97-fold increase in citric 
acid production by A. niger,  FUO 2 strain, subjected to UV radiation and cultivated on 
cassava peel substrate [30]. 
The release in 2007 of the first A. niger  genome data (strain CBS 513.88) [31] paved 
the way to more targeted modifications such as those aimed at modifying carbon source 
utilization and uptake [32,33], enhancing product secretion [34], and modifying the mycelial morphology of the fungus, which is known to be critical for CA production in 
submerged fermentations [35]. Other attempts were made by improving the efficiency of 
the mitochondrial electron transport chain [36] or by inserting genes involved in the 
reductive branch of the tricarbo xylic acid (rTCA) cycle [37]. 
Table 2. Citric acid production with  different substrates, microorganisms, and fermentation 
strategies. 
Microorganism Substrate Citric Acid Fermentation Reference 
Scheme 2. Representation of the main metabolic pathways involved in the production of citric,
fumaric, itaconic, lactic and succinic acid.
The release in 2007 of the ﬁrst A. niger genome data (strain CBS 513.88) [ 31] paved the
way to more targeted modiﬁcations such as those aimed at modifying carbon source uti-
lization and uptake [32,33], enhancing product secretion [34], and modifying the mycelial
morphology of the fungus, which is known to be critical for CA production in submerged
fermentations [ 35]. Other attempts were made by improving the efﬁciency of the mitochon-
drial electron transport chain [ 36] or by inserting genes involved in the reductive branch of
the tricarboxylic acid (rTCA) cycle [37].Catalysts 2022 ,12, 234 6 of 23
Table 2. Citric acid production with different substrates, microorganisms, and fermentation strategies.
Microorganism Substrate Citric Acid (g/L) Fermentation Mode Reference
A. niger MH 15-15 Glucose 31 Shake ﬂask [38]
A. niger MH 15-15 Sucrose 53 Shake ﬂask [38]
A. niger Corn stover 136.3Simultaneous
sacchariﬁcation and
fermentation[39]
A. niger GMCC 5751 Liqueﬁed corn 151.7 Batch [40]
Adapted A. nigerCorn powder and citric
acid efﬂuent157.3 Batch [41]
Mutant A. niger MO-25Beet molasses and
chicken feather peptone68.8 Shake ﬂask [28]
Mutant A. niger UMIP 2564 Sucrose 96.3 Shake ﬂask [29]
Mutant A. niger UMIP 2564 Beet molasses 98.3 Shake ﬂask [29]
Mutant A. niger UMIP 2564 Cane molasses 91.2 Shake ﬂask [29]
A. niger 831f Liqueﬁed cassava 162.7 Repeat-fed batch [42]
Y. lipolytica NRRL YB-423 Glycerol 21.6 Shake ﬂask [43]
Production of CA with A. niger can be achieved by three different fermentation strate-
gies: submerged, surface and solid-state fermentation, with each method having advan-
tages and disadvantages.
Liquid surface fermentation (SF) was the original technique used for the ﬁrst industrial
manufacture since 1919, and until recently, some small- and medium-scale production
plants adopted this method because of the low installation and operation costs. Typically,
fermentation is carried out in trays with a capacity of 50–100 L, mounted one over another
in aseptic chambers with controlled humidity and temperature. After spore germination,
which is usually completed within the ﬁrst 2 days, the fungus grows as mycelial mat.
Finally, after 8–12 days of fermentation, the liquor can be separated from the mycelia and
further processed for CA recovery [44].
Solid-state fermentation (SSF), also known as the Koji process, employs a solid insolu-
ble material that acts both as substrate and support in a low-water activity environment.
Different reactor conﬁgurations can be employed, such as ﬂasks, trays, horizontal drums
and glass columns [ 45]. SSF for CA production has several advantages over submerged and
surface fermentation, since it allows the exploitation of agro-food waste materials [ 25] and
is intrinsically correlated with lower energy and water consumption. Conversely, during
SSF it is difﬁcult to have full control of the process parameters; therefore, it is difﬁcult
to scale up and to standardize, requires longer process time and higher overall costs for
product recovery compared to other strategies. For these reasons, the SSF production mode
is still far from being industrially applicable [44].
Currently, most citric acid globally is produced by submerged fermentation (SmF)
with either stirred tank or bubble-column reactors. Compared to surface fermentation,
submerged fermentation requires more sophisticated equipment but, in turn, is charac-
terized by higher yields, lower fermentation times, ease of process standardization and
automation, and less risk of contamination [16,44].
A crucial step in CA production is represented by the downstream process, which
has been estimated to account for 30–40% of the selling price [ 46]. It must be considered
that the complexity of the procedure can be greatly inﬂuenced by the type of fermentation
(SSF, SF or SmF) and by the fermentation substrate; for instance, the use of agro-food
wastes may require additional steps to obtain a high-purity product. At the end of the
fermentation, microbial biomass is removed by ﬁltration, after which the broth can be
subjected to different treatments to obtain the puriﬁed citric acid. The classical method forCatalysts 2022 ,12, 234 7 of 23
CA recovery, which remains the most used, relies on tri-calcium citrate salt precipitation
caused by the addition of calcium oxide at 90C and pH 7, followed by treatment with
sulfuric acid that results in soluble citric acid and calcium sulfate [ 16]. Calcium sulfate
is ﬁltered off, whereas citric acid undergoes further puriﬁcation steps. An alternative
method for CA recovery is based on liquid–liquid extraction with various solvents (such
as aliphatic alcohols, ketones and tertiary amines) [ 47,48]. More recently, other methods
have been proposed, such as supercritical CO 2[49], adsorption on cationic resins and
electrodialysis [50,51].
A recent techno-economic and environmental analysis on CA production comparing
recovery by precipitation, ion exchange and solvent extraction indicated that the ion ex-
change method is the most environmentally friendly, whereas solvent extraction, followed
by precipitation, are the most economically convenient. Other factors having a large impact
on the ﬁnal selling price were electricity cost, by-product credit, feedstock cost, fermenter
cost and wastewater treatment cost [52].
Global citric acid production rose from 0.5 million tons in 1992 [ 53] to more than
2.55 million tons in 2020, and a moderate growth is expected in 2021–2026 [54].
The fermentative process used nowadays for citric acid production is mainly via
submerged fermentations of A. niger grown on molasses and/or other carbohydrates. The
main producers (in alphabetic order) are: Archer Daniels Midland-ADM (Chicago, IL,
USA), Cargill (Minneapolis, MN, USA), COFCO Biochemicals (Beijing, China), FoodChem
(Shanghai, China), Jungbunzlauer (Basel, Switzerland) and Tate and Lyle (London, UK).
In the last two decades, production was mostly located in China [ 16,17], which is now
acting as the major player in citric acid production, as can be easily inferred by patent
analysis over the last two decades. In fact, China has >80% of the total applied patents
regarding citric acid production and downstream [16].
2.2. Fumaric Acid (C 4H4O4, 116.07 g mol 1, pKa 13.03, pKa 24.44)
Fumaric acid (FA) is a trans four-carbon dicarboxylic acid, intermediate in the TCA
cycle, isolated for the ﬁrst time from the plant Fumaria ofﬁcinalis .
Fumaric acid is a specialty chemical with a number of applications in very diverse
ﬁelds. It is used as an additive and acidulant in food and beverages; being 1.5-fold more
acidic than citric acid, lower amounts are required (0.91 g of fumaric acid vs1.36 g of citric
acid are required to achieve the same taste [ 55]). Moreover, it is supplemented into ruminal
feed to decrease methanogenesis [ 56] and in quail’s feed has shown a number of beneﬁts
including improved growth, immune response and intestinal health [ 57]. Importantly,
fumaric acid has two carboxylic groups and one double bond, characteristics that make
it suitable for esteriﬁcation and polymerization to produce, to cite some, paper resins,
unsaturated polyester resins (UPR), biodegradable polymers, plasticizers and carboxylating
agents for rubber [ 58]. Recently, its esters (FAEs) have shown important pharmaceutical
applications in the treatment of sclerosis and psoriasis [59,60].
FA is mainly produced starting from petroleum-derived chemicals (mainly benzene,
n-butane, n-butene) by conventional chemical processes based on the isomerization of
maleic acid, obtained, in turn, from the hydrolysis of its anhydride [ 58]. Alternatively,
enzymatic processes based on the activity of maleate isomerases (from Bacillus ,Pseudomonas
orArthrobacter ) on maleic acid have been developed [ 61,62]. However, this route had poor
success as conﬁrmed by the few available reports.
The ﬁrst industrial production of FA was started by Pﬁzer using Rhizopus arrhizus
in the 1940s, with a production of 4000 tons/year [ 58]. Later, the fermentative route was
discontinued and replaced by the more economically convenient classical chemical route.
However, recently, as for several other platform chemicals, the shortage of fossil resources
and the need for green and sustainable processes gave a new boost to microbial production.
The most relevant species from a productive point of view are those belonging to
the genus Rhizopus (arrhizus, oryzae, nigricans and formosa ), which can accumulate and
secrete large amounts of fumaric acid through the cytosolic reductive branch of the TCACatalysts 2022 ,12, 234 8 of 23
(rTCA) pathway under aerobic conditions and limited nitrogen availability [ 58] (Scheme 2).
However, not all R. oryzae strains are able to produce FA. In fact, some studies revealed
that those strains able to produce FA did not belong to R. oryzae and should be reclassiﬁed
asR. delemar [63], however, to avoid confusion, they are still named as R. oryzae . The
rTCA cycle takes place in the cytosol starting from pyruvate and involves three reactions:
(i) condensation, in presence of ATP , of pyruvate and carbon dioxide catalyzed by pyruvate
carboxylase to produce oxaloacetic acid; (ii) conversion of oxaloacetic acid into malate
by malate dehydrogenase; (iii) conversion of malate to fumarate catalyzed by fumarase.
However, the rTCA cycle does not lead to the production of ATP , which must be produced
by the oxidative branch of the TCA cycle in mitochondria or by ethanol formation. When
nitrogen becomes limiting and cell growth stops, glucose metabolism and CO 2ﬁxation
continue, leading to the accumulation of fumarate [ 58]. The simultaneous occurrence of
both TCA cycles was demonstrated in R. arrhizus also by carbon labeling studies [ 64]. The
rTCA cycle has a theoretical maximum yield in non-growth conditions of 2 mol of FA per
mol of glucose (1.3 g/g); however, experimental yields are much lower. This is mainly
ascribed to the co-existence of the TCA cycle that fulﬁls the cell energy requirements and to
the formation of fermentation by-products such as ethanol and lactic acid [65].
Although high concentrations of fumaric acid have been obtained using recombinant
strains of R. oryzae [66,67],Escherichia coli [68,69],Saccharomyces cerevisiae [70,71], and
Torulopsis glabrata [72], the major titer of fumaric acid is ascribable to the native fumaric
acid-producing Rhizopus species [ 73], which are at present the main producers at industrial
scale, and most of the research on fumaric acid is based on these microorganisms. So far,
the highest titer of FA (>130 g/L) was obtained by Du Pont with R. arrhizus NRRL 1526
using glucose as the carbon source as claimed in the US patent US4877731A [74].
Glucose is indeed the most used carbon source for processes with Rhizopus species.
However, to improve the sustainability of the process, several efforts were addressed to
assess the use of alternative substrates and, in particular, of residual biomasses. Sebastian
et al. reported the production of FA starting from perennial grasses hydrolysates using
R. oryzae strains [ 75] with 0.3–0.5 g of FA per g of sugar. Production of FA was also
achieved with R. oryzae via fed-batch SSF and SHF processes employing alkali-pretreated
corncob [ 76]. Other examples deal with the use of food wastes [ 77,78], starchy materials [ 79–
81], lignocellulosic materials [ 82,83], crude glycerol [ 84] and brewery wastewater [ 85]
(Table 3). Two of the most relevant key factors for process optimization of FA production are
the control of fungi morphology and of the pH of the production medium. Morphology of
the fungi is considered one of the major technical challenges during fumaric acid production
in submerged fermentations, and it is one of the most important variables that may hamper
industrial scale production. In fact, during their growth, ﬁlamentous fungi can exhibit three
different morphologies: pellets, ﬁlaments, and clumps. Filamentous mycelium is the most
productive morphology; however, its formation causes operational problems due to the
high viscosity of the broth. Clumps are the less productive form, because their inner part
suffers from nutrient and oxygen limitations, leading to the production of ethanol and other
fermentation by-products. Pellet morphology is preferred over the others since it allows
efﬁcient mass transfer while avoiding the increase in medium viscosity. Interestingly, it was
observed that a lower pellet diameter corresponds to a more efﬁcient mass transfer of both
nutrients and oxygen, and thus increased yield [ 86]. Several reports showed how fungi
morphology can be controlled by acting on different parameters, such as nitrogen source,
spore concentration in the inoculum, pH, temperature and agitation rate [ 87–90]. Moreover,
immobilization of cells onto a solid support was also proposed as a method to overcome
morphology problems. Different metallic nano- and micro-particles were evaluated for
their ability to inﬂuence R. oryzae 1526 morphology and pellet size. Microparticles of
Fe3O4at a concentration of 200 g/mL were found to be the most effective providing the
highest FA titer (42 g/L) [ 91]. Unusual materials were also exploited as immobilization
supports; for instance, R. arrhizus RH 7-13-9 immobilized on loofah ﬁbers allowed to
achieve 30 g/L of fumaric acid when cultivated in a stirred tank reactor [ 92]. AnotherCatalysts 2022 ,12, 234 9 of 23
example by Naude et al. reports the use of R. oryzae cells attached to a polypropylene tube
for continuous fermentation [93].
Table 3. Fumaric acid production with different substrates, microorganisms, and fermentation strategies.
Microorganism Substrate Fumaric Acid (g/L) Fermentation Mode Reference
R. arrhizus NRRL 1526 Glucose 130 Batch [74]
R. arrhizus NRRL 1526 Perennial grasses 8.9 Shake ﬂask [75]
R. oryzae ATCC20344 Lignocellulosic Syrup 34.2 Shake ﬂask [82]
R. arrhizus RH7-13 Food Waste 32.7 Shake ﬂask [78]
R. oryzae NRRL 1526Brewery
wastewater31.3 Shake ﬂask [85]
R. arrhizus RH-07-13 Glucose and glycerol 22.8 Shake ﬂask [84]
R. arrhizus RH-7 13-9 Glucose 17.5Simultaneous fermentation
and separation[94]
Mutant E. coli E2 Glycerol 41.5 Fed-batch [69]
Mutant S. cerevisiae Glucose 33.1 Shake ﬂask [71]
Fumaric acid production is strongly affected by the fermentation pH which, if not
properly controlled through the addition of a neutralizing agent, quickly drops from 5.0
to 2.0 within the ﬁrst 20 h of fermentation. The most frequently used neutralizing agent
is CaCO 3; however, its use is correlated with several issues. First, calcium fumarate is
poorly soluble at 30C, and is consequently present as a precipitate that aggregates with
cells, resulting in a high viscous suspension. Secondly, the conversion of the carboxylate
salt to the free carboxylic acid requires the addition of H 2SO4which produces CaSO 4
(gypsum), which is associated with several environmental concerns [ 65]. Unfortunately, the
use of other neutralizing agents (i.e., Ca(OH) 2, NaHCO 3) is associated with lower yields
and productivity [ 95]. In particular, sodium fumarate is highly soluble in water and high
fumarate concentration may cause product inhibition [ 96]. Moreover, Na+ions can in some
cases negatively affect the cell metabolism [95].
An efﬁcient strategy for pH control during fermentation is represented by the simul-
taneous fermentation-separation process (SFS), that, in addition, allows the alleviation of
product inhibition phenomena, which cause reduced yields and productivity [94].
FA is produced in about 90,000 tons/y; MBI international (Lansing, MI, USA) uses the
fungus R. oryzae for production [ 97], while for Myriant corporation (Quincy, MA, USA),
there are indications about the development of different engineered strains of E. coli and
S. cerevisiae for organic acids production, including fumaric acid, from speciﬁc carbon
sources [98,99].
2.3. Itaconic Acid (C 5H6O4, 130.10 g mol 1, pKa 13.85, pKa 25.45)
Itaconic acid (IA) is an unsaturated dicarboxylic acid, also known as methylene
succinic acid. It was ﬁrstly discovered in 1836 by Baup during the distillation of citric
acid. However, the name itaconic acid its due to Crasso, who synthesized it through
decarboxylation of cis-aconitic acid [100].
Itaconic acid can be considered mainly as a chemical building block, as it is exclu-
sively used in non-food applications. It is used in styrene-butadiene rubber, synthetic
latex, methyl methacrylate (MMA), unsaturated polyester resins (UPR), and as a chelant
dispersant [101,102].
The production of IA by microbial fermentation is preferred to chemical synthesis,
which is long, scarcely efﬁcient and expensive because it is carried out starting from a
substrate, citric acid, with the same cost of itaconic acid, and it requires high tempera-
ture, implying high energy consumption [ 103,104]. Itaconic acid is produced in about
41.400 tons/y. The ﬁrst industry plant was founded by Pﬁzer Co. Inc (Brooklyn, 1955),
which also developed a patented aerobic fermentation process to produce itaconic acid [ 101].
While in the past decades the majority of the itaconic acid production was ascribable toCatalysts 2022 ,12, 234 10 of 23
companies located in different parts of the world, such as Cargill, Iwata Chemicals and
Melle, currently it is completely in the hands of Chinese industries [105,106].
The fungus Aspergillus terreus is known to be the best IA producer (about 160 g/L) [ 107],
also at commercial level, for its extraordinary tolerance to low pH, high yield and titer of
product, as described by [ 103,108]. In the last ten years, the basidiomycete Ustilago maydis,
also known as a natural producer, due to its similarity to yeasts, gained attention as a
candidate for large scale production, even if the IA yield on glucose is lower than that of A.
terreus (0.2g/g versus 0.48 g/gon glucose, respectively) [109–111] (Table 4).
Moreover, some other yeasts and fungi have been exploited as natural producers of
itaconic acid, but have never reached the commercial level (i.e., Candida sp. and Pseudozyma
antarctica ) [112,113].
From a metabolic point of view, IA production from glucose in A. terreus mainly
involves glycolysis and TCA (tricarboxylic acid cycle), where pyruvate produced by glycol-
ysis is transported in the mitochondrial compartment to become acetil-CoA, which together
with oxaloacetate, catalyzes the reaction to obtain citrate, and further into cis-aconinate,
a substrate of cis-aconitate decarboxylase (CAD) responsible for the decarboxylation in
itaconic acid (Scheme 2) [ 114]. IA is then transported outside the cell by a facilitator super-
family protein (mfsA gene) [ 115]. Differently, for the ﬁlamentous fungus Ustilago maydis,
due to the lack of the CAD gene, the decarboxylation of cis-aconitate into itaconic acid
occurs by the action of trans -aconitate decarboxylase (Tad1), preceded by isomerization
through the cytosolic enzyme aconitate- D-isomerase (ADI). Afterwards, the membrane
transport protein ITP1 allows the excretion of itaconic acid through the cell wall [ 116].
It is important to highlight that, since decarboxylation takes place in the cytosol, while
cis-aconitate is produced in the mitochondrion, the action of a mitochondrial tricarboxylate
transporter protein (Mtt) is necessary as well [ 102]. During the years, engineering strategy
and/or mutagenesis techniques were developed to increase itaconic acid production [ 104].
The native producer of itaconic acid U. maydis was engineered by overexpressing the genes
involved in itaconic acid production in A. terreus (rai1 and mttA) and deleting genes in-
volved in the synthesis of by-products (cyp3, dgat, MEL and UA). The resulting strain,
grown on glucose with a continuous feeding strategy, showed an itaconic acid titer and
yield of 74.9 g/L and 0.54 g/g, respectively [ 117]. In addition, non-native producers of
itaconic acid, due to some interesting characteristics for the fermentation (e.g., organic
acid tolerance and production of a considerable amount of TCA intermediates), have also
been considered for genetic modiﬁcations. The low pH-tolerant Pichia kudriavzevii , already
engineered to produce some organic acids, has undergone multiple genetic modiﬁcations
(introduction of CAD gene from A. terreus , overexpression of a native mitochondrial tricar-
boxylate transporter (mttA), and deletion of the gene encoding isocitrate dehydrogenase
(ICD)), to establish itaconic acid production [118].
Table 4. Itaconic acid production with different substrates, microorganisms, and fermentation strategies .
Microorganism Substrate Itaconic Acid (g/L) Fermentation Mode Reference
A. terreus DSM 23081 Glucose 160 Fed-batch [107]
A. terreus NRRL 1960 D-Xylose 53.97 Batch [119]
A. terreus NRRL 1960 Bleached eucalyptus pulp 37.5 Shake ﬂask [120]
U. maydis MB215 Glucose 44.5 Batch [109]
Mutant U. maydis MB215 Glucose 80 Fed-batch [121]
Mutant U. maydis MB215 Glucose 74.9 Continuous feeding [117]
U. vetiveriae TZ1 Glycerol 34.7 Batch [122]
A. terreus CICC40205 Wheat bran hydrolysate 34.2 Shake ﬂask [123]
A. terreus M69 Corn stover hydrolysate 33.6 Shake ﬂask [124]
Furthermore, the best citric acid producer A. niger was engineered by the introduction
ofcadA and acoA genes, two known key enzymes for itaconic acid production, which
allowed IA production by an extension of the citric acid production pathway [125].Catalysts 2022 ,12, 234 11 of 23
From an economical point of view, since the maximum yield of IA is reached by
glucose fermentation of A. terreus , alternative carbon sources should be used to make
the process competitive with petrochemical-derived products. Unfortunately, low-cost
substrates (including potato starch, plant-derived hydrolysate, lignocellulosic biomasses)
are related to nutrient deﬁciency and toxicity problems, which lead to poorly competitive
yields compared to the ones obtained with pure sugars [ 126]. In addition, most residual
biomasses require pre-treatment steps in order to be metabolized by the cells. A recent
review about itaconic acid [ 101] reported different IA producer strains (native or not)
modiﬁed in order to exploit some residual biomasses as alternative carbon sources.
Moreover, it is important to highlight that to replace the petroleum-based itaconic acid
efﬁciently with the biotechnological one, a price reduction should occur (at least of USD
0.5/kg from the current cost of USD 1.5–2.0/kg) [126,127].
2.4. Lactic Acid (C 3H6O3, 90.07948 g mol 1, pKa 13.78)
Lactic acid (LA) was ﬁrst isolated from sour milk by the Swedish chemist, Karl Wilhelm
Scheele, in 1780, but only in 1857 did the chemist and microbiologist Louis Pasteur attribute
its production to certain microorganisms [ 128]. LA appears colorless to yellow at 15C and
at a pressure of 1 atm [ 129]. It is known to occur in two isomeric forms, ( L(+)- or D( )),
due to the chiral carbon that confers optical activity to the monomer, as well as the racemic
form, DL-Lactic acid [130].
The production of LA occurs by chemical synthesis or fermentation. Microbial fer-
mentation is very attractive for lactic acid production since it allows to obtain pure isomers
(L(+)- or D( )-LA) instead of racemic mixture ( DL-LA), with the latter being typical of the
chemical synthesis [ 131]. Furthermore, the chemical synthesis involves the use of polluting
substances (e.g., lactonitrile and the highly toxic hydrogen cyanide), which have high
costs of production too [ 129]. These days, more than 90% of lactic acid is produced by
fermentation processes [ 132]. Currently, many companies are involved in LA production
at the commercial level: ADM (Chicago, IL, USA), Aldon Corporation (Avon, NY, USA),
Anhui COFCO Biochemical and GALACTIC (Bengbu, China), Cargill (Minneapolis, MN,
USA), ChonggingBofei Biochemical Products (Chongging, China), CorbionPurac (Ams-
terdam, The Netherlands), Galactic (New Orleans, LA, USA), Henan Jindan Lactic Acid
Technology (Dancheng Henan, China), Musashino Chemical (Tokyo, Japan), Nature Works
LLC (Minnetonka, MN, USA), Symbra Technology BV (Etten-Leur, The Netherlands), Tedia
Company Inc (Fairﬁeld, OH, USA), Yangtze Labre (Yangtze, China) [ 133]; among these,
the biggest producers at industrial scale are Corbion and Cargill (producing about 240,000
and 180,000 tons, respectively) [ 134]. LA is mostly used as monomer of the biobased and
biodegradable polylactic acid (PLA) for biodegradable plastics. PLA is today considered
among the most promising polymers for bioplastics. PLA ﬁnds applications in packaging,
agriculture, transport, electronics, textiles, and others. At present, the main suppliers of PLA
are Cargill (Minneapolis, MN, USA) Galactic (Escanafﬂes, Belgium), Purac, (Amsterdam,
The Netherlands), FKuR (Willich, Germany), and Shimadzu (Kyoto, Japan) [135,136].
The microorganisms used for microbial fermentation are different, depending on the
isomer to be produced. Several microorganisms can produce pure L-LA, including bacteria,
fungi, cyanobacteria, algae and yeasts [ 137,138]. Moreover, other strains are known for
D-LA production, for instance Lactobacillus delbrueckii ,Sporolactobacillus ,Escherichia coli , and
Bacillus coagulans [139] (Table 5).
Although other microorganisms have been identiﬁed as lactic acid producers, as
described above, nowadays lactic acid bacteria (LABs) still represent the best producers at
industrial scale [ 136]. They produce LA by glycolysis (Scheme 2) in anaerobic conditions,
although they are micro-aerophilic or aerotolerant as well, at a temperature in the range of
25–45C (depending on the microorganism), and a pH between 5.5 and 6.5 [ 133,140]. It
is possible to distinguish homofermentative LABs, belonging to the genera Streptococcus ,
Lactococcus ,Enterococcus ,Pediococcus and Lactobacillus , which produce lactic acid as main
product, and heterofermentative LAB (as L. brevis ,L. fermentum and L. reuteri ) in which,Catalysts 2022 ,12, 234 12 of 23
together with lactic acid, there are other by-products such as ethanol, acetic acid and carbon
dioxide. At the metabolic level, homofermentative LABs produce two molecules of LA
per mole of glucose with a theoretical yield of 1 g/gthrough the Embden-Meyerhof-Parnas
pathway, whereas the yield for heterofermentative LABs is 0.5 g/gor 0.6 g/g, depending on
the pathway, phosphogluconate and phosphoketolase, respectively [136,141].
Generally, homofermentative strains use hexose sugars such as glucose to produce
lactic acid as the only product, whereas pentose sugars such as xylose can enter in the
phosphoketolase pathway to obtain lactic acid and other by-products, which leads to
yield reduction and increase in the recovery cost [ 133]. Since homofermentative LABs can
reach yield values very close to the maximum theoretical one, they were considered for
industrial production.
In order to optimize lactic acid production, some aspects that can affect the fermenta-
tion process should be considered, including temperature, sugar concentration, effect of
nutrients, mixed sugars, and by-product formation [133].
A critical role is held by the pH of the fermentation: the preferred form of the product
is the undissociated one, which means that the ﬁnal pH of the medium should be well below
the pK aof LA, corresponding to 3.78. However, at this pH, most LABs show irreversible
damage to their metabolic functions [ 142]. Therefore, several neutralizing agents are added
to the fermentation broth to maintain the pH and protect the microbial cells. Unfortunately,
the use of Ca(OH) 2or CaCO 3causes the formation of calcium lactate that must be removed
through acid treatment (H 2SO4), generating, as discussed above for other organic acids,
calcium sulfate (gypsum), a waste product with serious disposal concerns [143,144].
For the successful production of LA, different modiﬁcation technologies were consid-
ered. More recently, Tian et al. described the application of mutagenesis, adaptive evolution
and metabolic engineering on lactic acid bacteria [145].
Along with LAB, other microorganisms have been evaluated as potential lactic acid
producers. Some of the most interesting are the Bacillus strains which are able to grow
at high temperatures (up to 55C), avoiding further sterilization of the culture media,
and allow the exploitation of second-generation biomasses, since they may tolerate some
by-products generated by pre-treatments [146–148].
In addition to bacteria, fungi, for example those belonging to the genus Rhizopus [141],
and yeasts have attracted attention for their intrinsic ability to tolerate low pHs.
In respect to yeasts, while the initial preference was for the budding yeast Saccharomyces
cerevisiae , which was the ﬁrst engineered for lactic acid production [ 149], other yeasts have
been exploited.
The natural fermentation occurring in yeasts leads, in most cases, to ethanol and CO 2
formation, therefore there is a need to re-route pyruvate to the desired product. The engi-
neering strategy most often used is the overexpression of a heterologous lactate dehydroge-
nase gene ( LDH ), coupled, in some cases, to the partial or complete deletion/inactivation of
pyruvate decarboxylase ( PDC ) genes [150,151]. These modiﬁcations were often combined
with further engineering or evolution to overcome poor growth on glucose related to the
deﬁciency in 2C intermediates, usually deriving from acetaldehyde (as reviewed in [ 152]),
and with the ability to tolerate low pH. Recently, Park at al. described the high titer of
D-lactic acid (154 g/L) reached by the genetically modiﬁed yeast Pichia kudriavzevii (also
known as Issatchenkia orientalis ) [153], but the pH of the medium of 4.7 cannot assure the
advantage of having the product in undissociated form.
Lactic acid production can be also improved by co-culture of strains with similar
growth characteristics, allowing the cultivation of homofermentative strains which can
take the advantage from heterofermentative ones, which normally produce low amounts of
lactic acid due to the accumulation of other products [ 154]. Co-cultures are an interesting
perspective also for the simultaneous sacchariﬁcation and fermentation (SSF) strategy, and
for the use of mixed sugars; both are typical conditions when raw materials are considered
as fermentation substrate [133].Catalysts 2022 ,12, 234 13 of 23
The increasing demand for lactic acid is due to the spread of end-products industries
which include food & beverages, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, polymers [ 133]. It is estimated
that, by 2028, the market for lactic acid will reach USD 5.02 billion, and is expected to grow
by about 8.0% from 2021 to 2028 [155].
For a commodity such as LA, it is crucial to consider all the factors which contribute to
the ﬁnal cost, and at the same time, it is relevant to take sustainability into account, as large
production is expected. The use of cheap raw materials, which do not release dangerous
by-products after pre-treatments, could be the ideal condition for economic lactic acid
production [ 156]. Among the second-generation biomasses, the lignocellulosic ones are
the most interesting for LA production due to their abundance [ 129]. However, they need
pretreatments and enzymatic hydrolysis to release the sugars, toxic compounds can be
released along with these steps, and the ﬁnal puriﬁcation of LA is more complex. All these
elements need to be accurately considered. Recently, in order to analyze all the variables
related to lignocellulosic biomasses pre-treatment and use for LA fermentation, Li et al.
exploited the BioSTEAM platform to conclude that the optimization of separation process
and fermentation is essential for a successful production process [157].
Indeed, the downstream affects the ﬁnal cost of lactic acid, of which 50% is ascribable
to recovery and puriﬁcation [ 158]. As already discussed above, due to the decrease in
fermentation pH as result of LA accumulation, neutralizing agents are used for LAB-based
production [ 133]. This method is well known as precipitation and is still the conventional
one for LA separation today [ 144]. Alternatively, MgO can substitute Ca(OH) 2or CaCO 3,
with the advantage that it can be reused after the lactic acid extraction. Li et al. recently
described the pros and cons of the separation and puriﬁcation techniques known today for
LA [ 159]. Certainly, the recovery process is extremely complex considering the composition
of the fermentation broth (cells, sugars, inorganic salts, and other organic acids) [160].
Table 5. Lactic acid production with different substrates, microorganisms and fermentation strategies.
Microorganism Substrate Lactic Acid (g/L) Fermentation Mode Reference
Mutant P . kudriavzevii Glucose 154 ( D-Lactic acid) Fed-batch [153]
Evolved L. delbrueckii S-NL31 Soybean meal 112.3 ( D-Lactic acid) Fed-batch [161]
Evolved and mutated S. cerevisiae Glucose 82.6 ( D-Lactic acid) Fed-batch [162]
Mutant S. cerevisiae Glucose 40 ( D-Lactic acid) Fed-batch [163]
Mutant E. coli Glycerol 115 ( D-Lactic acid) Fed-batch [164]
L. delbrueckii ssp. bulgaricus Orange peel waste 45 ( D-Lactic acid)Separate hydrolysis and
fermentation[165]
L. delbrueckiiMolasses and corn
steep liquor162 ( D-Lactic acid) Fed-batch [166]
B. coagulans A107 Defatted rice bran (DRB) 75.9 ( L-Lactic acid) Batch [137]
L. brevis ATCC 367 and L. plantarum
ATCC 21028Corn stover24 ( L-Lactic acid)
31.2 ( L-Lactic acid)Simultaneous
sequential[167]
L. casei Sugarcane molasses 120.23 (NS) Batch [168]
Mutant S. cerevisiae Glucose 142 ( L-Lactic acid) Fed-batch [169]
R. oryzae LA-UN-1 Glucose 162 ( L-Lactic acid) Fed-batch [170]
L. rhamnosus DUT1908 Starchy biomass 108 ( L-Lactic acid)One step liquefaction,
sacchariﬁcation
and fermentation[171]
Mutated and evolved
L. paracasei NCBIO01Glucose202 ( L-Lactic acid)
9.06 ( D-Lactic acid)Open fermentation [172]
B. coagulans and
L. rhamnosusCassava bagasse 113 ( L-Lactic acid)Simultaneous
sacchariﬁcation
and co-fermentation[173]
Mutant L. plantarum NCIMB 8826 Raw corn starch 50 ( L-Lactic acid) Batch [174]
L. paracasei
subsp. paracasei2Food waste 34 ( L-Lactic acid) Batch [175]
NS: not speciﬁed.
2.5. Succinic Acid (C 4H6O4, 118.09 g mol 1, pKa 14.2, pKa 25.6)
Succinic acid (SA) is a dicarboxylic acid usually produced by hydrogenation of fossil-
derived maleic anhydride, but due to the drawbacks associated with petroleum-chemical
production (e.g., greenhouse gas emission and non-renewable energy consumption), nowa-Catalysts 2022 ,12, 234 14 of 23
days the fermentative route is preferred for its production. Several studies have shown that
the production of succinic acid by fermentation can also lead to a reduction in costs [176].
It is deﬁned as “bio-succinic” acid, derived from plants, animals and microorganisms,
although it is principally produced by anaerobic fermentation. In 1546 the German min-
eralist and doctor Georgius Agricola puriﬁed succinic acid for the ﬁrst time from amber;
afterwards, it was produced by microbial fermentation [177].
The ﬁrst microorganisms recognized as succinic acid producers were bacteria iso-
lated from rumen, such as Actinobacillus succinogenes ,Anaerobiospirillum succiniciproducens ,
Mannheimia succiniciproducens ,Basﬁa succiniciproducens ,Bacillus fragilis and also some fungi
such as Fusarium ,Aspergillus and Penicillium species.
Among them, the most promising for industrial production is A. succinogenes ; several
fermentation aspects including carbon and nitrogen sources, as well as pH regulator, should
be considered for a successful production process [178].
Unfortunately, the production of succinic acid by microbial fermentation is not com-
petitive compared to petro-chemical products, as often happens for different organic acid
production. The cost of the product per kg is USD 2.94 and USD 2.5, for bio-succinic acid
and the combined bio- and fossil-based succinic acid, respectively [ 179]. Until now, the
pivotal companies which produce succinic acid, according to the bioreﬁnery concept, at
commercial scale are Myriant (Quincy, MA, USA), Reverdia (Cassano Spinola, Italy) and
Succinity (Montmel ò, Spain) [ 180]. Succinic acid represents the key precursor for a wide
range of bulk chemicals including 1,4-butanediol, gamma-butyrolactone, tetrahydrofu-
ran, adipic acid, n-methylpyrrolidone, linear aliphatic esters, or biodegradable polymers
(butylene succinic acid) (PBS) [181,182].
In most cases, succinic acid is produced by exploiting the reductive TCA cycle
(Scheme 2) through anaerobic or micro-aerobic fermentation, principally by rumen bac-
teria [ 183]. In addition, there are two other pathways, the glyoxylate pathway and the
oxidative TCA cycle, for succinate production [184].
In the last few years, several engineering strategies have been developed for the
production of succinic acid by microbial fermentation. For this purpose, microorganisms
such as S. cerevisiae ,Y. lipolytica ,E. coli ,P . kudriavsevii ,B. succiniciproducens have been
considered, especially for their tolerance to low pH, essential to exceed the downstream
costs, and for the many engineering tools available [ 176] (Table 6). The joint venture of
DSM and Roquette, Reverdia, developed the modiﬁed strain of S. cerevisiae , SUC-297, for
succinic acid production through the dual-phase fed-batch fermentation of glucose [ 185].
Likewise, other companies have worked to obtain mutated strains to increase their plant
capacity, as reported by Ahn et al. [186].
At the same time, as for the other commodities before, low-cost feedstocks must be
considered to obtain a sustainable bio-product. A two-stage pH fermentation, to promote
the undissociated form of the acid, was proposed by Stylianou et al. [ 187] using as carbon
sources the organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) hydrolysates. In addition,
other second-generation biomasses (e.g., mixed food, agricultural and textile waste as well
as crude glycerol) have been successfully used as described by Li et al. [176].
The yield and efﬁciency of “bio-succinic” acid depends on the metabolic pathway
involved. For example, the production of succinic acid by the reductive TCA cycle in
anaerobic conditions can lead to defective cellular growth; Vemuri et al. proposed a
dual-phase fermentation, which consists of an aerobic growth phase and an anaerobic
production phase, combining glyoxylate and reductive TCA cycle, obtaining 99.2 g/L of
succinic acid [ 188]. More recently, a mixed culture of two microorganisms, S. cerevisiae and
A. succinogenes , was also exploited to create an efﬁcient co-culture system for succinic acid
production [189].Catalysts 2022 ,12, 234 15 of 23
Table 6. Succinic acid production with different substrates, microorganisms, and fermentation strategies.
Microorganism Substrate Succinic Acid (g/L) Fermentation Mode Reference
Isolate AKR177 Pure glycerol 117 Fed-batch [190]
Isolate AKR177 Crude glycerol 86.9 Fed-batch [190]
A. succinogenes CCTCC M2012036 Sugarcane bagasse39.9
70.81Batch
Fed-batch[191]
Mutant E. coli MH28 Glycerol 84.3 Batch [98]
Mutant S. cerevisiae SUC-297 Glucose 43 Fed-batch [185]
Mutant B. succiniciproducens LU15224 Glycerol and maltose 69.8 Batch [192]
Mutant Y. lipolytica Crude Glycerol 209.7 Fed-batch [193]
Mutant E. coli Glucose 99.2 Dual-phase [188]
Mutant Y. lipolytica Glucose 101.4 Fed-batch [194]
Mutant Y. lipolytica Glycerol 110.7 Fed-batch [195]
Evolved Y. lipolytica Mixed food waste 71.6 Fed-batch [196]
3. Discussion and Conclusions
The examples reported are the best way of demonstrating that microbial-based pro-
duction can at least compete, if still not replace, the fossil-based production of chemical
platforms. Nonetheless, it was mentioned that many other commodity chemical platforms
have been produced by microbial fermentation but have not reached the market yet.
Robustness of cell factories and scaling-up gaps are the prominent limitations. In
respect to ameliorating the performances of cell factories, several aspects, often intercon-
nected, need to be taken into account. The stoichiometry and thermodynamics of the native
or heterologous pathways have to be balanced and considered, respectively, especially
when the product of interest is implied to close or reroute other pathways as well. This
also results in the possibility of calculating the theoretical yield and compensate for redox
imbalance or availability of (micro)nutrients, to avoid by-product formation or/and energy
overﬂow. Another relevant aspect is to evaluate the formation of oxidized products or free
radicals, as a consequence of an energy imbalance or the fermentation settings [197].
In respect to the issue of scaling up, a promising support to ﬁll the gap is offered
by innovation in the ﬁeld of scaling-down models, supported by the miniaturization of
fermentation units, still fully equipped for online measurements. The very crucial point
is to ask the system how to better simulate what happens in large-scale fermenters and
how to prioritize the selected parameters, which can be decided only by sharing data
and information and by having the whole process, including the ﬁnal downstream, in
mind [ 8]. In this respect, systems and synthetic biology can give a tremendous boost to our
descriptive, predictive, and engineering capability, for example by including ﬂuctuating
cultivation conditions in quantitative descriptions and implementing cells with biosensors
or molecular switchers tailored to compensate for stresses. These perspectives are partic-
ularly relevant if we consider, as recently reviewed, that the cost of bringing a process of
commodity production to industrial scale can cost from USD 100 million to 1 billion [198].
As a ﬁnal consideration, while it can be securely assessed that all the mentioned
products are biobased, exactly as for biofuel production, the next question will be if they
are really sustainable, as for most of them the feedstock is constituted by ﬁrst-generation
sugars. In order to exploit renewable substrates for the microbial production of organic acid,
it is important to consider the difﬁculties related to the assimilation and metabolization
by the cells. Recently, the genetic manipulation of membrane transporters involved in the
import of second-generation biomasses has been summarized [ 199]. Nevertheless, there
are different examples of improvements in the use of this kind of feedstock for organic acid
production [ 200]. In parallel, great attention is more and more devoted to the utilization
of CO 2as a carbon source, also for organic acid production [ 201,202], and not only in
dependence on photosynthesis.
To conclude, thanks to experience in microbial biotechnology that has matured over
the last decades, it is now very clear that obtaining the proof of concept for a process ofCatalysts 2022 ,12, 234 16 of 23
production is no longer the limiting step. The main bottlenecks towards the development
of proﬁtable and competitive microbial and biobased processes are the scale-up parameters,
which are very often difﬁcult to replicate at laboratory-scale. The recent advances in tech-
nologies and in quantitative analysis, together with the tremendous advances in synthetic
biology, will be crucial to boost research as well as the technology transfer of microbial
organic acid production in the next few years.
Author Contributions: R.D.D.L. and I.S. Writing—Original Draft Preparation & Editing; P .B. and D.P .
Conceptualization, Writing—Review & Editing. All authors have read and agreed to the published
version of the manuscript.
Funding: The authors acknowledge the support of FAR (Fondo di Ateneo per la Ricerca) of the
University of Milano-Bicocca. The work was also partially supported by the SYSBIO Centre of
Systems Biology. Studies on lactic acid production from agricultural renewable feedstock, ongoing
in PB’s group, are supported by CARDoon valorization by InteGrAted bioreﬁNery (CARDIGAN)
project, funded by the Italian Ministry of Education, University and Research (PRIN, 2017KBTK93).
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any
commercial or ﬁnancial relationships that could be construed as a potential conﬂict of interest.
References
1. Branduardi, P . Closing the loop: The power of microbial biotransformations from traditional bioprocesses to bioreﬁneries, and
beyond. Microb. Biotechnol. 2021 ,14, 68–73. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
2. Werpy, T.; Petersen, G. Top Value Added Chemicals from Biomass Volume I—Results of Screening for Potential Candidates from Sugars
and Synthesis Gas ; National Renewable Energy Lab: Golden, CO, USA, 2004; Volume 2.
3. Bozell, J.J.; Petersen, G.R. Technology development for the production of biobased products from bioreﬁnery carbohydrates—The
US Department of Energy’s “top 10” revisited. Green Chem. 2010 ,12, 539–555. [CrossRef]
4. Becker, J.; Lange, A.; Fabarius, J.; Wittmann, C. Top value platform chemicals: Bio-based production of organic acids. Curr. Opin.
Biotechnol. 2015 ,36, 168–175. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
5. Choi, S.; Song, C.W.; Shin, J.H.; Lee, S.Y. Bioreﬁneries for the production of top building block chemicals and their derivatives.
Metab. Eng. 2015 ,28, 223–239. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
6. Research, G.V . Organic Acids Market Analysis, by Product Type (Formic Acid, Citric Acid, Others), by Source Type (Biomass,
Chemical Synthesis, Others), by Application (Food & Beverages Industry, Pharmaceutical Industry, Others), Forecasts To 2028.
Available online: https://www.reportsanddata.com/report-detail/organic-acids-market (accessed on 14 December 2021).
7. Van Dien, S. From the ﬁrst drop to the ﬁrst truckload: Commercialization of microbial processes for renewable chemicals. Curr.
Opin. Biotechnol. 2013 ,24, 1061–1068. [CrossRef]
8. Wehrs, M.; Tanjore, D.; Eng, T.; Lievense, J.; Pray, T.R.; Mukhopadhyay, A. Engineering robust production microbes for large-scale
cultivation. Trends Microbiol. 2019 ,27, 524–537. [CrossRef]
9. Scheele, C.W. Sammtliche Physische and Chemischewerke ; Mayer & Müller: Berlin, Germany, 1784; Volume 2.
10. Papagianni, M. Advances in citric acid fermentation by Aspergillus niger : Biochemical aspects, membrane transport and modeling.
Biotechnol. Adv. 2007 ,25, 244–263. [CrossRef]
11. Grimoux, E.; Adams, P . Synthese de l ácide citrique. C. R. Hebd. Seances Acad. Sci. 1880 ,90, 1252.
12. Wehmer, C.F.W. Beiträge zur Kenntnis Einheimischer Pilze ; Hahn’sche Buchhandlung: Hannover/Jena, Germany, 1893.
13. Currie, J.N. The citric acid fermentation of Aspergillus niger .J. Biol. Chem. 1917 ,31, 15–37. [CrossRef]
14. Apelblat, A. Citric Acid ; Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2014; ISBN 978-3-319-11232-9.
15. Judah, G. Pﬁzer’s Work on Penicillin for World War II becomes a National Historic Chemical Landmark. Available on-
line: https://www.acs.org/content/acs/en/pressroom/newsreleases/2008/june/pﬁzers-work-on-penicillin-for-world-war-
ii-becomes-a-national-historic-chemical-landmark.html (accessed on 13 December 2021).
16. Mores, S.; de Souza Vandenberghe, L.P .; J únior AI, M.; de Carvalho, J.C.; de Mello AF, M.; Pandey, A.; Soccol, C.R. Citric acid
bioproduction and downstream processing: Status, opportunities, and challenges. Bioresour. Technol. 2021 ,320, 124426. [CrossRef]
17. Ciriminna, R.; Meneguzzo, F.; Delisi, R.; Pagliaro, M. Citric acid: Emerging applications of key biotechnology industrial product.
Chem. Cent. J. 2017 ,11, 1–9. [CrossRef]
18. Savi, L.K.; Dias, M.C.G.C.; Carpine, D.; Waszczynskyj, N.; Ribani, R.H.; Haminiuk, C.W.I. Natural deep eutectic solvents (NADES)
based on citric acid and sucrose as a potential green technology: A comprehensive study of water inclusion and its effect on
thermal, physical and rheological properties. Int. J. Food Sci. Technol. 2019 ,54, 898–907. [CrossRef]
19. Amato, A.; Becci, A.; Beolchini, F. Citric acid bioproduction: The technological innovation change. Crit. Rev. Biotechnol. 2020 ,
40, 199–212. [CrossRef]
20. Behera, B.C.; Mishra, R.; Mohapatra, S. Microbial citric acid: Production, properties, application, and future perspectives. Food
Front. 2021 ,2, 62–76. [CrossRef]Catalysts 2022 ,12, 234 17 of 23
21. Erdem, C.; Papanikolaou, S.; Fickers, P .; Agirman, B.; Erten, H. Citric Acid Production by Yarrowia lipolytica . InNon-Conventional
Yeasts: From Basic Research to Application ; Sibirny, A., Ed.; Springer International Publishing: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2019;
pp. 91–117.
22. Yang, L.; Lübeck, M.; Lübeck, P .S. Aspergillus as a versatile cell factory for organic acid production. Fungal Biol. Rev. 2017 ,
31, 33–49. [CrossRef]
23. Perlman, D. Mycological production of citric acid: The submerged culture method. Econ. Bot. 1949 ,3, 360. [CrossRef]
24. Gil, R.G.; Correa, H.S.; Contreras Larios, J.L.; Gonz ález-Brambila, M.M. A biotechnological process for obtaining citric acid
through paper cellulose aerobic bioreaction. Int. J. Chem. React. Eng. 2020 ,18, 1–10. [CrossRef]
25. Roukas, T.; Kotzekidou, P . Pomegranate peel waste: A new substrate for citric acid production by Aspergillus niger in solid-state
fermentation under non-aseptic conditions. Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res. 2020 ,27, 13105–13113. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
26. Papadaki, E.; Kontogiannopoulos, K.N.; Assimopoulou, A.N.; Mantzouridou, F.T. Feasibility of multi-hydrolytic enzymes
production from optimized grape pomace residues and wheat bran mixture using Aspergillus niger in an integrated citric
acid-enzymes production process. Bioresour. Technol. 2020 ,309, 123317. [CrossRef]
27. Papadaki, E.; Mantzouridou, F.T. Citric acid production from the integration of spanish-style green olive processing wastewaters
with white grape pomace by Aspergillus niger .Bioresour. Technol. 2019 ,280, 59–69. [CrossRef]
28. Ozdal, M.; Kurbanoglu, E.B. Citric acid production by Aspergillus niger from agro-industrial by-products: Molasses and chicken
feather peptone. Waste Biomass Valorization 2019 ,10, 631–640. [CrossRef]
29. Lotfy, W.A.; Ghanem, K.M.; El-Helow, E.R. Citric acid production by a novel Aspergillus niger isolate: I. Mutagenesis and cost
reduction studies. Bioresour. Technol. 2007 ,98, 3464–3469. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
30. Adeoye, A.O.; Lateef, A.; Gueguim-Kana, E.B. Optimization of citric acid production using a mutant strain of Aspergillus niger on
cassava peel substrate. Biocatal. Agric. Biotechnol. 2015 ,4, 568–574. [CrossRef]
31. Pel, H.J.; De Winde, J.H.; Archer, D.B.; Dyer, P .S.; Hofmann, G.; Schaap, P .J.; Turner, G.; De Vries, R.P .; Albang, R.; Albermann,
K.; et al. Genome sequencing and analysis of the versatile cell factory Aspergillus niger CBS 513.88. Nat. Biotechnol. 2007 ,25,
221–231. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
32. Wang, L.; Cao, Z.; Hou, L.; Yin, L.; Wang, D.; Gao, Q.; Wu, Z.; Wang, D. The opposite roles of agdA and glaA on citric acid
production in Aspergillus niger .Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2016 ,100, 5791–5803. [CrossRef]
33. Xue, X.; Bi, F.; Liu, B.; Li, J.; Zhang, L.; Zhang, J.; Gao, Q.; Wang, D. Improving citric acid production of an industrial Aspergillus
niger CGMCC 10142: Identiﬁcation and overexpression of a high-afﬁnity glucose transporter with different promoters. Microb.
Cell Fact. 2021 ,20, 1–13. [CrossRef]
34. Steiger, M.G.; Rassinger, A.; Mattanovich, D.; Sauer, M. Engineering of the citrate exporter protein enables high citric acid
production in Aspergillus niger .Metab. Eng. 2019 ,52, 224–231. [CrossRef]
35. Sun, X.; Wu, H.; Zhao, G.; Li, Z.; Wu, X.; Liu, H.; Zheng, Z. Morphological regulation of Aspergillus niger to improve citric acid
production by chsC gene silencing. Bioprocess Biosyst. Eng. 2018 ,41, 1029–1038. [CrossRef]
36. Hou, L.; Liu, L.; Zhang, H.; Zhang, L.; Zhang, L.; Zhang, J.; Gao, Q.; Wang, D. Functional analysis of the mitochondrial alternative
oxidase gene (aox1) from Aspergillus niger CGMCC 10142 and its effects on citric acid production. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2018 ,
102, 7981–7995. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
37. De Jongh, W.A.; Nielsen, J. Enhanced citrate production through gene insertion in Aspergillus niger .Metab. Eng. 2008 ,10, 87–96.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
38. Hossain, M.; Brooks, J.D.; Maddox, I.S. The effect of the sugar source on citric acid production by Aspergillus niger .Appl. Microbiol.
Biotechnol. 1984 ,19, 393–397. [CrossRef]
39. Hou, W.; Bao, J. Simultaneous sacchariﬁcation and aerobic fermentation of high titer cellulosic citric acid by ﬁlamentous fungus
Aspergillus niger .Bioresour. Technol. 2018 ,253, 72–78. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
40. Wang, L.; Zhang, J.; Cao, Z.; Wang, Y.; Gao, Q.; Zhang, J.; Wang, D. Inhibition of oxidative phosphorylation for enhancing citric
acid production by Aspergillus niger .Microb. Cell Fact. 2015 ,14, 1–12. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
41. Wang, B.; Zhao, S.; Tan, F.; Li, H.; Chu, R.; Wang, X.; Sun, H.; Zhang, M. A novel green production process of citric acid on the
pilot scale by directly recycling its extraction efﬂuent. J. Clean. Prod. 2020 ,277, 124068. [CrossRef]
42. Yu, B.; Zhang, X.; Sun, W.; Xi, X.; Zhao, N.; Huang, Z.; Ying, Z.; Liu, L.; Liu, D.; Niu, H.; et al. Continuous citric acid production
in repeated-fed batch fermentation by Aspergillus niger immobilized on a new porous foam. J. Biotechnol. 2018 ,276–277 , 1–9.
[CrossRef]
43. Levinson, W.E.; Kurtzman, C.P .; Kuo, T.M. Characterization of Yarrowia lipolytica and related species for citric acid production
from glycerol. Enzyme Microb. Technol. 2007 ,41, 292–295. [CrossRef]
44. Vandenberghe, L.P .S.; Rodrigues, C.; de Carvalho, J.C.; Medeiros, A.B.P .; Soccol, C.R. Production and application of citric acid.
InCurrent Developments in Biotechnology and Bioengineering ; Elsevier: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 2017; pp. 557–575. ISBN
9780444636621.
45. Vandenberghe, L.P .S.; Soccol, C.R.; Prado, F.C.; Pandey, A. Comparison of citric acid production by solid-state fermentation in
ﬂask, column, tray, and drum bioreactors. Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol. 2004 ,118, 293–304. [CrossRef]
46. Straathof, A.J.J. The proportion of downstream costs in fermentative production processes. In Comprehensive Biotechnology ;
Elsevier: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 2011; Volume 1, pp. 811–814.Catalysts 2022 ,12, 234 18 of 23
47. Kertes, A.S.; King, C.J. Extraction chemistry of fermentation product carboxylic acids. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2009 ,103, 431–445.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
48. Araújo, E.M.R.; Coelho, F.E.B.; Balarini, J.C.; Miranda, T.L.S.; Salum, A. Solvent extraction of citric acid with different organic
phases. Adv. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2017 ,7, 304–324. [CrossRef]
49. Djas, M.; Henczka, M. Reactive extraction of citric acid using supercritical carbon dioxide. J. Supercrit. Fluids 2016 ,117, 59–63.
[CrossRef]
50. Pourcelly, G. Citric acid recovery by electrodialysis. In Encyclopedia of Membranes ; Drioli, E., Giorno, L., Eds.; Springer:
Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2016.
51. Delgado Dobladez, J.A.; Águeda Mat é, V .I.; Uribe Santos, D.L.; Torrellas, S. Á.; Larriba, M. Citric acid puriﬁcation by simulated
moving bed adsorption with methanol as desorbent. Sep. Sci. Technol. 2019 ,54, 930–942. [CrossRef]
52. Wang, J.; Cui, Z.; Li, Y.; Cao, L.; Lu, Z. Techno-economic analysis and environmental impact assessment of citric acid production
through different recovery methods. J. Clean. Prod. 2020 ,249, 119315. [CrossRef]
53. Anastassiadis, S.; Morgunov, I.G.; Kamzolova, S.V .; Finogenova, T.V . Citric acid production patent review. Recent Pat. Biotechnol.
2008 ,2, 107–123. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
54. Citric Acid Market: Global Industry Trends, Share, Size, Growth, Opportunity and Forecast 2021–2026. Available online:
https://www.imarcgroup.com/citric-acid-manufacturing-plant (accessed on 29 January 2022).
55. Ilica, R.A.; Kloetzer, L.; Galaction, A.I.; Ca¸ scaval, D. Fumaric acid: Production and separation. Biotechnol. Lett. 2019 ,41, 47–57.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
56. Li, Z.; Liu, N.; Cao, Y.; Jin, C.; Li, F.; Cai, C.; Yao, J. Effects of fumaric acid supplementation on methane production and rumen
fermentation in goats fed diets varying in forage and concentrate particle size. J. Anim. Sci. Biotechnol. 2018 ,9, 1–9. [CrossRef]
[PubMed]
57. Reda, F.M.; Ismail, I.E.; Attia, A.I.; Fikry, A.M.; Khalifa, E.; Alagawany, M. Use of fumaric acid as a feed additive in quail’s
nutrition: Its effect on growth rate, carcass, nutrient digestibility, digestive enzymes, blood metabolites, and intestinal microbiota.
Poult. Sci. 2021 ,100, 101493. [CrossRef]
58. Roa Engel, C.A.; Straathof, A.J.J.; Zijlmans, T.W.; Van Gulik, W.M.; Van Der Wielen, L.A.M. Fumaric acid production by
fermentation. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2008 ,78, 379–389. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
59. Moharregh-Khiabani, D.; Linker, R.A.; Gold, R.; Stangel, M. Fumaric acid and its esters: An emerging treatment for multiple
sclerosis. Curr. Neuropharmacol. 2009 ,7, 60–64. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
60. Smith, D. Fumaric acid esters for psoriasis: A systematic review. Ir. J. Med. Sci. 2017 ,186, 161–177. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
61. Ichikawa, S.; Iino, T.; Sato, S.; Nakahara, T.; Mukataka, S. Improvement of production rate and yield of fumaric acid from maleic
acid by heat treatment of Pseudomonas alcaligenes strain XD-1. Biochem. Eng. J. 2003 ,13, 7–13. [CrossRef]
62. Goto, M.; Nara, T.; Tokumaru, I.; Fugono, N.; Uchida, Y.; Terasawa, M.; Yukawa, H. Method of Producing Fumaric Acid. U.S.
Patent US5783428, 21 July 1998.
63. Abe, A.; Oda, Y.; Asano, K.; Sone, T. Rhizopus delemar is the proper name for Rhizopus oryzae fumaric-malic acid producers.
Mycologia 2007 ,99, 714–722. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
64. Kenealy, W.; Zaady, E.; Du Preez, J.C. Biochemical aspects of fumaric acid accumulation by Rhizopus arrhizus .Appl. Environ.
Microbiol. 1986 ,52, 128–133. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
65. Yang, S.T.; Zhang, K.; Zhang, B.; Huang, H. Fumaric Acid. Compr. Biotechnol. Second Ed. 2011 ,3, 163–177. [CrossRef]
66. Zhang, B.; Skory, C.D.; Yang, S.T. Metabolic engineering of Rhizopus oryzae : Effects of overexpressing pyc and pepc genes on
fumaric acid biosynthesis from glucose. Metab. Eng. 2012 ,14, 512–520. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
67. Zhang, B.; Yang, S.T. Metabolic engineering of Rhizopus oryzae : Effects of overexpressing fumR gene on cell growth and fumaric
acid biosynthesis from glucose. Process Biochem. 2012 ,47, 2159–2165. [CrossRef]
68. Song, C.W.; Kim, D.I.; Choi, S.; Jang, J.W.; Lee, S.Y. Metabolic engineering of Escherichia coli for the production of fumaric acid.
Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2013 ,110, 2025–2034. [CrossRef]
69. Li, N.; Zhang, B.; Wang, Z.; Tang, Y.J.; Chen, T.; Zhao, X. Engineering Escherichia coli for fumaric acid production from glycerol.
Bioresour. Technol. 2014 ,174, 81–87. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
70. Xu, G.; Chen, X.; Liu, L.; Jiang, L. Fumaric acid production in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by simultaneous use of oxidative and
reductive routes. Bioresour. Technol. 2013 ,148, 91–96. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
71. Chen, X.; Zhu, P .; Liu, L. Modular optimization of multi-gene pathways for fumarate production. Metab. Eng. 2016 ,33, 76–85.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
72. Chen, X.; Wu, J.; Song, W.; Zhang, L.; Wang, H.; Liu, L. Fumaric acid production by Torulopsis glabrata : Engineering the urea cycle
and the purine nucleotide cycle. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2015 ,112, 156–167. [CrossRef]
73. Sebastian, J.; Hegde, K.; Kumar, P .; Rouissi, T.; Brar, S.K. Bioproduction of fumaric acid: An insight into microbial strain
improvement strategies. Crit. Rev. Biotechnol. 2019 ,39, 817–834. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
74. Ling, L.B.; Ng, T.K. Fermentation Process for Carboxylic Acids. U.S. Patent US4877731A, 31 October 1989.
75. Sebastian, J.; Rouissi, T.; Brar, S.K. Miscanthus sp. Perennial lignocellulosic biomass as feedstock for greener fumaric acid
bioproduction. Ind. Crops Prod. 2022 ,175, 114248. [CrossRef]Catalysts 2022 ,12, 234 19 of 23
76. Li, X.; Zhou, J.; Ouyang, S.; Ouyang, J.; Yong, Q. Fumaric acid production from alkali-pretreated corncob by fed-batch simultaneous
sacchariﬁcation and fermentation combined with separated hydrolysis and fermentation at high solids loading. Appl. Biochem.
Biotechnol. 2017 ,181, 573–583. [CrossRef]
77. Das, R.K.; Brar, S.K.; Verma, M. A fermentative approach towards optimizing directed biosynthesis of fumaric acid by Rhizopus
oryzae 1526 utilizing apple industry waste biomass. Fungal Biol. 2015 ,119, 1279–1290. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
78. Liu, H.; Ma, J.; Wang, M.; Wang, W.; Deng, L.; Nie, K.; Yue, X.; Wang, F.; Tan, T. Food waste fermentation to fumaric acid by
Rhizopus arrhizus rh7-13. Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol. 2016 ,180, 1524–1533. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
79. Deng, Y.; Li, S.; Xu, Q.; Gao, M.; Huang, H. Production of fumaric acid by simultaneous sacchariﬁcation and fermentation
of starchy materials with 2-deoxyglucose-resistant mutant strains of Rhizopus oryzae .Bioresour. Technol. 2012 ,107, 363–367.
[CrossRef]
80. Wu, X.; Liu, Q.; Deng, Y.; Chen, X.; Zheng, Z.; Jiang, S.; Li, X. Production of fumaric acid by bioconversion of corncob hydrolytes
using an improved Rhizopus oryzae strain. Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol. 2018 ,184, 553–569. [CrossRef]
81. Moresi, M.; Parente, E.; Petruccioli, M.; Federici, F. Fumaric acid production from hydrolysates of starch-based substrates. J. Chem.
Technol. Biotechnol. 1992 ,54, 283–290. [CrossRef]
82. Deng, F.; Aita, G.M. fumaric acid production by Rhizopus oryzae ATCC®®20344tmfrom lignocellulosic syrup. Bioenergy Res. 2018 ,
11, 330–340. [CrossRef]
83. Scholz, S.A.; Graves, I.; Minty, J.J.; Lin, X.N. Production of cellulosic organic acids via synthetic fungal consortia. Biotechnol.
Bioeng. 2017 ,115, 1096–1100. [CrossRef]
84. Zhou, Y.; Nie, K.; Zhang, X.; Liu, S.; Wang, M.; Deng, L.; Wang, F.; Tan, T. Production of fumaric acid from biodiesel-derived
crude glycerol by Rhizopus arrhizus .Bioresour. Technol. 2014 ,163, 48–53. [CrossRef]
85. Das, R.K.; Brar, S.K. Enhanced fumaric acid production from brewery wastewater and insight into the morphology of Rhizopus
oryzae 1526. Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol. 2014 ,172, 2974–2988. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
86. Zhou, Z.; Du, G.; Hua, Z.; Zhou, J.; Chen, J. Optimization of fumaric acid production by Rhizopus delemar based on the morphology
formation. Bioresour. Technol. 2011 ,102, 9345–9349. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
87. Papadaki, A.; Androutsopoulos, N.; Patsalou, M.; Koutinas, M.; Kopsahelis, N.; Machado De Castro, A.; Papanikolaou,
S.; Koutinas, A.A. Biotechnological production of fumaric acid: The effect of morphology of Rhizopus arrhizus NRRL 2582.
Fermentation 2017 ,3, 33. [CrossRef]
88. Zhang, K.; Yu, C.; Yang, S.T. Effects of soybean meal hydrolysate as the nitrogen source on seed culture morphology and fumaric
acid production by Rhizopus oryzae .Process Biochem. 2015 ,50, 173–179. [CrossRef]
89. Zhou, Y.; Du, J.; Tsao, G.T. Mycelial pellet formation by Rhizopus oryzae ATCC 20344. Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol. 2000 ,84, 779–789.
[CrossRef]
90. Roa Engel, C.A.; Van Gulik, W.M.; Marang, L.; Van der Wielen, L.A.M.; Straathof, A.J.J. Development of a low pH fermentation
strategy for fumaric acid production by Rhizopus oryzae .Enzyme Microb. Technol. 2011 ,48, 39–47. [CrossRef]
91. Das, R.K.; Brar, S.K.; Verma, M. effects of different metallic nanoparticles on germination and morphology of the fungus Rhizopus
oryzae 1526 and changes in the production of fumaric acid. Bionanoscience 2015 ,5, 217–226. [CrossRef]
92. Liu, H.; Zhao, S.; Jin, Y.; Yue, X.; Deng, L.; Wang, F.; Tan, T. Production of fumaric acid by immobilized Rhizopus arrhizus RH
7-13-9# on loofah ﬁber in a stirred-tank reactor. Bioresour. Technol. 2017 ,244, 929–933. [CrossRef]
93. Naude, A.; Nicol, W. Improved continuous fumaric acid production with immobilised Rhizopus oryzae by implementation of a
revised nitrogen control strategy. N. Biotechnol. 2018 ,44, 13–22. [CrossRef]
94. Zhang, Y.; Liu, H.; Liu, X.; Zhu, H.; Fan, T.; Deng, L.; Wang, F. A high efﬁcient method for simultaneous fermentation and
separation of fumaric acid with a ﬁxed bed ion exchange column. Biochem. Eng. J. 2020 ,160, 107610. [CrossRef]
95. Zhou, Y.; Du, J.; Tsao, G. Comparison of fumaric acid production by Rhizopus oryzae using different neutralizing agents. Bioprocess
Biosyst. Eng. 2002 ,25, 179–181. [CrossRef]
96. Rhodes, R.A.; Lagoda, A.A.; Misenheimer, T.J.; Smith, M.L.; Anderson, R.F.; Jackson, R.W. production of fumaric acid in 20-liter
fermentors. Appl. Microbiol. 1962 ,10, 9–15. [CrossRef]
97. Guettler, M.V .; Hanchar, R.J.; Rumler, D.S.; Kleff, S. Fermentation Method using a Magnesium Compound Containing Oxygen.
U.S. Patent 8,431,372, 30 April 2010.
98. Yocum, R.R.; Hermann, T.; Yu, X. Fermentation of Glycerol to Organic Acids 2013. WO2013/015770Al, 31 January 2013.
99. Yocum, R.R.; Dole, S.; Pero, J.G. Production of Organic Acids by Fermentation at Low pH. U.S. Patent US20150240270A1, 28
September 2015.
100. Cordes, T.; Michelucci, A.; Hiller, K. Itaconic Acid: The surprising role of an industrial compound as a mammalian antimicrobial
metabolite. Annu. Rev. Nutr. 2015 ,35, 451–473. [CrossRef]
101. Gopaliya, D.; Kumar, V .; Khare, S.K. Recent advances in itaconic acid production from microbial cell factories. Biocatal. Agric.
Biotechnol. 2021 ,36, 102130. [CrossRef]
102. Teleky, B.E.; Vodnar, D.C. Biomass-derived production of itaconic acid as a building block in specialty polymers. Polymers 2019 ,
11, 1035. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
103. Cunha da Cruz, J.; Machado de Castro, A.; Camporese S érvulo, E.F. World market and biotechnological production of itaconic
acid. 3 Biotech. 2018 ,8. [CrossRef]Catalysts 2022 ,12, 234 20 of 23
104. Bafana, R.; Pandey, R.A. New approaches for itaconic acid production: Bottlenecks and possible remedies. Crit. Rev. Biotechnol.
2018 ,38, 68–82. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
105. Weastra Determination of market potential for selected platform chemicals: Itaconic acid, Succinic acid, 2,5-Furandicarboxylic
acid. BioConSepT 2011 , 1–173.
106. Okabe, M.; Lies, D.; Kanamasa, S.; Park, E.Y. Biotechnological production of itaconic acid and its biosynthesis in Aspergillus terreus .
Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2009 ,84, 597–606. [CrossRef]
107. Krull, S.; Hevekerl, A.; Kuenz, A.; Prüße, U. Process development of itaconic acid production by a natural wild type strain of
Aspergillus terreus to reach industrially relevant ﬁnal titers. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2017 ,101, 4063–4072. [CrossRef]
108. Saha, B.C. Emerging biotechnologies for production of itaconic acid and its applications as a platform chemical. J. Ind. Microbiol.
Biotechnol. 2017 ,44, 303–315. [CrossRef]
109. Maassen, N.; Panakova, M.; Wierckx, N.; Geiser, E.; Zimmermann, M.; Bölker, M.; Klinner, U.; Blank, L.M. Inﬂuence of carbon and
nitrogen concentration on itaconic acid production by the smut fungus Ustilago maydis .Eng. Life Sci. 2014 ,14, 129–134. [CrossRef]
110. Kuenz, A.; Gallenmüller, Y.; Willke, T.; Vorlop, K.D. Microbial production of itaconic acid: Developing a stable platform for high
product concentrations. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2012 ,96, 1209–1216. [CrossRef]
111. Wierckx, N.; Agrimi, G.; Lübeck, P .S.; Steiger, M.G.; Mira, N.P .; Punt, P .J. Metabolic specialization in itaconic acid production: A
tale of two fungi. Curr. Opin. Biotechnol. 2020 ,62, 153–159. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
112. Tabuchi, T.; Sugisawa, T.; Ishidori, T.; Nakahara, T.; Sugiyama, J. Itaconic acid fermentation by a yeast belonging to the genus
Candida .Agric. Biol. Chem. 1981 ,45, 475–479. [CrossRef]
113. Levinson, W.E.; Kurtzman, C.P .; Kuo, T.M. Production of itaconic acid by Pseudozyma antarctica NRRL Y-7808 under nitrogen-
limited growth conditions. Enzyme Microb. Technol. 2006 ,39, 824–827. [CrossRef]
114. Winskillm, N. Tricarboxylic acid cycle activity in relation to itaconic acid biosynthesis by Aspergillus terreus .Microbiology 1983 ,
129, 2877–2883. [CrossRef]
115. Zhao, M.; Lu, X.; Zong, H.; Li, J.; Zhuge, B. Itaconic acid production in microorganisms. Biotechnol. Lett. 2018 ,40, 455–464.
[CrossRef]
116. Geiser, E.; Przybilla, S.K.; Friedrich, A.; Buckel, W.; Wierckx, N.; Blank, L.M.; Bölker, M. Ustilago maydis produces itaconic acid via
the unusual intermediate trans-aconitate. Microb. Biotechnol. 2016 ,9, 116–126. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
117. Becker, J.; Tehrani, H.H.; Ernst, P .; Blank, L.M.; Wierckx, N. An optimized Ustilago maydis for itaconic acid production at maximal
theoretical yield. J. Fungi 2021 ,7, 20. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
118. Sun, W.; Vila-Santa, A.; Liu, N.; Prozorov, T.; Xie, D.; Faria, N.T.; Ferreira, F.C.; Mira, N.P .; Shao, Z. Metabolic engineering of an
acid-tolerant yeast strain Pichia kudriavzevii for itaconic acid production. Metab. Eng. Commun. 2020 ,10, e00124. [CrossRef]
119. Kolláth, I.S.; Moln ár,Á.P .; So ós,Á.; Fekete, E.; S ándor, E.; Kov ács, B.; Kubicek, C.P .; Karaffa, L. Manganese deﬁciency is required
for high itaconic acid production from D-xylose in Aspergillus terreus .Front. Microbiol. 2019 ,10, 1589. [CrossRef]
120. Kerssemakers, A.A.J.; Dom énech, P .; Cassano, M.; Yamakawa, C.K.; Dragone, G.; Mussatto, S.I. Production of itaconic acid
from cellulose pulp: Feedstock feasibility and process strategies for an efﬁcient microbial performance. Energies 2020 ,13, 1654.
[CrossRef]
121. Demir, H.T.; Bezirci, E.; Becker, J.; Tehrani, H.H.; Nikerel, E.; Wierck, N.; Türker, M. High level production of itaconic acid at low
pH by Ustilago maydis with fed-batch fermentation. Bioprocess Biosyst. Eng. 2021 ,44, 749–758. [CrossRef]
122. Zambanini, T.; Hosseinpour Tehrani, H.; Geiser, E.; Merker, D.; Schleese, S.; Krabbe, J.; Buescher, J.M.; Meurer, G.; Wierckx,
N.; Blank, L.M. Efﬁcient itaconic acid production from glycerol with Ustilago vetiveriae TZ1. Biotechnol. Biofuels 2017 ,10, 1–15.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
123. Wu, X.; Liu, Q.; Deng, Y.; Li, J.; Chen, X.; Gu, Y.; Lv, X.; Zheng, Z.; Jiang, S.; Li, X. Production of itaconic acid by biotransformation
of wheat bran hydrolysate with Aspergillus terreus CICC40205 mutant. Bioresour. Technol. 2017 ,241, 25–34. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
124. Liu, Y.; Liu, G.; Zhang, J.; Balan, V .; Bao, J. Itaconic acid fermentation using activated charcoal-treated corn stover hydrolysate and
process evaluation based on Aspen plus model. Biomass Convers. Bioreﬁnery 2020 ,10, 463–470. [CrossRef]
125. Xie, H.; Ma, Q.; Wei, D.; Wang, F. Metabolic engineering of an industrial Aspergillus niger strain for itaconic acid production. 3
Biotech 2020 ,10, 113. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
126. Yang, J.; Xu, H.; Jiang, J.; Zhang, N.; Xie, J.; Wei, M.; Zhao, J. Production of itaconic acid through microbiological fermentation of
inexpensive materials. J. Bioresour. Bioprod. 2019 ,4, 135–142. [CrossRef]
127. Klement, T.; Büchs, J. Itaconic acid—A biotechnological process in change. Bioresour. Technol. 2013 ,135, 422–431. [CrossRef]
[PubMed]
128. Ghaffar, T.; Irshad, M.; Anwar, Z.; Aqil, T.; Zulifqar, Z.; Tariq, A.; Kamran, M.; Ehsan, N.; Mehmood, S. Recent trends in lactic acid
biotechnology: A brief review on production to puriﬁcation. J. Radiat. Res. Appl. Sci. 2014 ,7, 222–229. [CrossRef]
129. Komesu, A.; de Oliveira, J.A.R.; da Silva Martins, L.H.; Maciel, M.R.W.; Maciel Filho, R. Lactic acid production to puriﬁcation: A
review. BioResources 2017 ,12, 4364–4383. [CrossRef]
130. Meng, K.; Zhang, G.; Ding, C.; Zhang, T.; Yan, H.; Zhang, D.; Fang, T.; Liu, M.; You, Z.; Yang, C.; et al. Recent advances on
puriﬁcation of lactic acid. Chem. Rec. 2020 ,20, 1236–1256. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
131. Farooq, U.; Anjum, F.M.; Zahoor, T.; Sajjad-Ur-Rahman; Randhawa, M.A.; Ahmed, A.; Akram, K. Optimization of lactic acid
production from cheap raw material: Sugarcane molasses. Pakistan J. Bot. 2012 ,44, 333–338.Catalysts 2022 ,12, 234 21 of 23
132. Ajala, E.O.; Olonade, Y.O.; Ajala, M.A.; Akinpelu, G.S. Lactic acid production from lignocellulose–A review of major challenges
and selected solutions. ChemBioEng Rev. 2020 ,7, 38–49. [CrossRef]
133. Rawoof, S.A.A.; Kumar, P .S.; Vo, D.V .N.; Devaraj, K.; Mani, Y.; Devaraj, T.; Subramanian, S. Production of optically pure lactic
acid by microbial fermentation: A review. Environ. Chem. Lett. 2021 ,19, 539–556. [CrossRef]
134. Jem, K.J.; Tan, B. The development and challenges of poly (lactic acid) and poly (glycolic acid). Adv. Ind. Eng. Polym. Res. 2020 ,
3, 60–70. [CrossRef]
135. Naser, A.Z.; Deiab, I.; Darras, B.M. Poly(lactic acid) (PLA) and polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs), green alternatives to petroleum-
based plastics: A review. RSC Adv. 2021 ,11, 17151–17196. [CrossRef]
136. Chung, M.R.W.Y.; Tan, I.S.; Foo, H.C.Y.; Lam, M.K.; Lim, S. Potential of macroalgae-based bioreﬁnery for lactic acid production
from exergy aspect. Biomass Convers. Bioreﬁnery 2021 , 1–31. [CrossRef]
137. Alexandri, M.; Neu, A.K.; Schneider, R.; L ópez-G ómez, J.P .; Venus, J. Evaluation of various Bacillus coagulans isolates for the
production of high purity L-lactic acid using defatted rice bran hydrolysates. Int. J. Food Sci. Technol. 2019 ,54, 1321–1329.
[CrossRef]
138. Maas, R.H.W.; Bakker, R.R.; Jansen, M.L.A.; Visser, D.; De Jong, E.; Eggink, G.; Weusthuis, R.A. Lactic acid production from
lime-treated wheat straw by Bacillus coagulans : Neutralization of acid by fed-batch addition of alkaline substrate. Appl. Microbiol.
Biotechnol. 2008 ,78, 751–758. [CrossRef]
139. Awasthi, D.; Wang, L.; Rhee, M.S.; Wang, Q.; Chauliac, D.; Ingram, L.O.; Shanmugam, K.T. Metabolic engineering of Bacillus
subtilis for production of D-lactic acid. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2018 ,115, 453–463. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
140. Vijayakumar, J.; Aravindan, R.; Viruthagiri, T. Recent trends in the production, puriﬁcation and application of lactic acid. Chem.
Biochem. Eng. Q. 2008 ,22, 245–264.
141. Abedi, E.; Hashemi, S.M.B. Lactic acid production–Producing microorganisms and substrates sources-state of art. Heliyon 2020 ,6,
e04974. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
142. Holyoak, C.D.; Stratford, M.; Mcmullin, Z.; Cole, M.B.; Crimmins, K.; Brown, A.J.P .; Coote, P .J. Activity of the plasma membrane
H+-ATPase and optimal glycolytic ﬂux are required for rapid adaptation and growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae in the presence of
the weak-acid preservative sorbic acid. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 1996 ,62, 3158–3164. [CrossRef]
143. Porro, D.; Bianchi, M.M.; Brambilla, L.; Menghini, R.; Bolzani, D.; Carrera, V .; Lievense, J.; Liu, C.; Ranzi, B.M.; Frontali, L.; et al.
replacement of a metabolic pathway for large-scale production of lactic acid from engineered yeasts. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.
1999 ,65, 4211–4215. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
144. Alves De Oliveira, R.; Alexandri, M.; Komesu, A.; Venus, J.; Vaz Rossell, C.E.; Maciel Filho, R. Current advances in separation and
puriﬁcation of second-generation lactic acid. Sep. Purif. Rev. 2020 ,49, 159–175. [CrossRef]
145. Tian, X.; Chen, H.; Liu, H.; Chen, J. Recent advances in lactic acid production by lactic acid bacteria. Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol.
2021 ,193, 4151–4171. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
146. Pleissner, D.; Demichelis, F.; Mariano, S.; Fiore, S.; Navarro Guti érrez, I.M.; Schneider, R.; Venus, J. Direct production of lactic
acid based on simultaneous sacchariﬁcation and fermentation of mixed restaurant food waste. J. Clean. Prod. 2017 ,143, 615–623.
[CrossRef]
147. Zhou, X.; Ye, L.; Wu, J.C. Efﬁcient production of l-lactic acid by newly isolated thermophilic Bacillus coagulans WCP10-4 with high
glucose tolerance. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2013 ,97, 4309–4314. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
148. Xu, K.; Xu, P . Efﬁcient production of l-lactic acid using co-feeding strategy based on cane molasses/glucose carbon sources.
Bioresour. Technol. 2014 ,153, 23–29. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
149. Porro, D.; Brambilla, L.; Ranzi, B.M.; Martegani, E.; Alberghina, L. Development of metabolically engineered Saccharomyces
cerevisiae cells for the production of lactic acid. Biotechnol. Prog. 1995 ,11, 294–298. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
150. Baptista, S.L.; Costa, C.E.; Cunha, J.T.; Soares, P .O.; Domingues, L. Metabolic engineering of Saccharomyces cerevisiae for the
production of top value chemicals from bioreﬁnery carbohydrates. Biotechnol. Adv. 2021 ,47, 107697. [CrossRef]
151. Sauer, M.; Porro, D.; Mattanovich, D.; Branduardi, P . 16 Years research on lactic acid production with yeast. Biotechnol. Genet. Eng.
Rev. 2010 ,21, 229–256. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
152. Abbott, D.A.; Zelle, R.M.; Pronk, J.T.; van Maris, A.J.A. Metabolic engineering of Saccharomyces cerevisiae for production of
carboxylic acids: Current status and challenges. FEMS Yeast Res. 2009 ,9, 1123–1136. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
153. Park, H.J.; Bae, J.H.; Ko, H.J.; Lee, S.H.; Sung, B.H.; Han, J.I.; Sohn, J.H. Low-pH production of D-lactic acid using newly isolated
acid tolerant yeast Pichia kudriavzevii NG7. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2018 ,115, 2232–2242. [CrossRef]
154. E¸ s, I.; Mousavi Khaneghah, A.; Barba, F.J.; Saraiva, J.A.; Sant’Ana, A.S.; Hashemi, S.M.B. Recent advancements in lactic acid
production—A review. Food Res. Int. 2018 ,107, 763–770. [CrossRef]
155. Grand View Research Lactic Acid Market Size Worth $5.02 Billion by 2028. Available online: https://www.grandviewresearch.
com/press-release/global-lactic-acid-and-poly-lactic-acid-market (accessed on 14 December 2021).
156. Srivastava, D.G. Lactic acid production for pharmaceutical applications by Lactobacillus delbrueckii immobilized on chitosan and
polyethylene glycol stabilized calcium alginate beads: Process optimization using response surface methodology. World J. Pharm.
Res. 2017 ,6, 1737–1762. [CrossRef]
157. Li, Y.; Bhagwat, S.S.; Cort és-Pen ã, Y.R.; Ki, D.; Rao, C.V .; Jin, Y.S.; Guest, J.S. Sustainable lactic acid production from lignocellulosic
biomass. ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng. 2021 ,9, 1341–1351. [CrossRef]
158. Wasewar, K.L. Separation of lactic acid: Recent advances. Chem. Biochem. Eng. Q. 2005 ,19, 159–172.Catalysts 2022 ,12, 234 22 of 23
159. Li, C.; Gao, M.; Zhu, W.; Wang, N.; Ma, X.; Wu, C.; Wang, Q. Recent advances in the separation and puriﬁcation of lactic acid
from fermentation broth. Process Biochem. 2021 ,104, 142–151. [CrossRef]
160. Lee, H.D.; Lee, M.Y.; Hwang, Y.S.; Cho, Y.H.; Kim, H.W.; Park, H.B. Separation and puriﬁcation of lactic acid from fermentation
broth using membrane-integrated separation Processes. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2017 ,56, 8301–8310. [CrossRef]
161. Liang, S.; Jiang, W.; Song, Y.; Zhou, S.F. Improvement and metabolomics-based analysis of d -lactic acid production from agro-
industrial wastes by Lactobacillus delbrueckii submitted to adaptive laboratory evolution. J. Agric. Food Chem. 2020 ,68, 7660–7669.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
162. Baek, S.H.; Kwon, E.Y.; Bae, S.J.; Cho, B.R.; Kim, S.Y.; Hahn, J.S. Improvement of D-lactic acid production in Saccharomyces
cerevisiae under acidic conditions by evolutionary and rational metabolic engineering. Biotechnol. J. 2017 ,12, 1–7. [CrossRef]
163. Watcharawipas, A.; Sae-Tang, K.; Sansatchanon, K.; Sudying, P .; Boonchoo, K.; Tanapongpipat, S.; Kocharin, K.; Runguphan, W.
Systematic engineering of Saccharomyces cerevisiae for D-lactic acid production with near theoretical yield. FEMS Yeast Res. 2021 ,
21, 1–15. [CrossRef]
164. Wang, Y.D.; Liao, J.Y.; Chiang, C.J.; Chao, Y.P . A simple strategy to effectively produce D-lactate in crude glycerol-utilizing
Escherichia coli .Biotechnol. Biofuels 2019 ,12, 1–9. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
165. Bustamante, D.; Tortajada, M.; Ram ón, D.; Rojas, A. Production of D-lactic acid by the fermentation of orange peel waste
hydrolysate by lactic acid bacteria. Fermentation 2020 ,6, 1. [CrossRef]
166. Beitel, S.M.; Coelho, L.F.; Contiero, J. Efﬁcient conversion of agroindustrial waste into D(-) lactic acid by Lactobacillus delbrueckii
using fed-batch fermentation. Biomed Res. Int. 2020 ,2020 , 4194052. [CrossRef]
167. Zhang, Y.; Vadlani, P .V . Lactic acid production from biomass-derived sugars via co-fermentation of Lactobacillus brevis and
Lactobacillus plantarum .J. Biosci. Bioeng. 2015 ,119, 694–699. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
168. Thakur, A.; Panesar, P .S.; Saini, M.S. Optimization of process parameters and estimation of kinetic parameters for lactic acid
production by Lactobacillus casei MTCC 1423. Biomass Convers. Bioreﬁnery 2019 ,9, 253–266. [CrossRef]
169. Song, J.Y.; Park, J.S.; Kang, C.D.; Cho, H.Y.; Yang, D.; Lee, S.; Cho, K.M. Introduction of a bacterial acetyl-CoA synthesis pathway
improves lactic acid production in Saccharomyces cerevisiae .Metab. Eng. 2016 ,35, 38–45. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
170. Fu, Y.; Sun, X.; Zhu, H.; Jiang, R.; Luo, X.; Yin, L. An optimized fed-batch culture strategy integrated with a one-step fermentation
improves L-lactic acid production by Rhizopus oryzae .World J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2018 ,34, 74. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
171. Sun, Y.; Liu, H.; Yang, Y.; Zhou, X.; Xiu, Z. High-efﬁcient l-lactic acid production from inedible starchy biomass by one-step open
fermentation using thermotolerant Lactobacillus rhamnosus DUT1908. Bioprocess Biosyst. Eng. 2021 ,44, 1935–1941. [CrossRef]
172. Tian, X.; Liu, X.; Zhang, Y.; Chen, Y.; Hang, H.; Chu, J.; Zhuang, Y. Metabolic engineering coupled with adaptive evolution
strategies for the efﬁcient production of high-quality L-lactic acid by Lactobacillus paracasei .Bioresour. Technol. 2021 ,323, 124549.
[CrossRef]
173. Chen, H.; Chen, B.; Su, Z.; Wang, K.; Wang, B.; Wang, Y.; Si, Z.; Wu, Y.; Cai, D.; Qin, P . Efﬁcient lactic acid production from
cassava bagasse by mixed culture of Bacillus coagulans and Lactobacillus rhamnosus using stepwise pH controlled simultaneous
sacchariﬁcation and co-fermentation. Ind. Crops Prod. 2020 ,146, 112175. [CrossRef]
174. Okano, K.; Uematsu, G.; Hama, S.; Tanaka, T.; Noda, H.; Kondo, A.; Honda, K. Metabolic engineering of Lactobacillus plantarum
for direct L-lactic acid production from raw corn starch. Biotechnol. J. 2018 ,13, 1–6. [CrossRef]
175. Gao, M.; Ma, X.; Song, N.; Wang, Q.; Wu, C. A newly isolated strain, Lactobacillus paracasei subsp. paracasei 2, produces L-lactic
acid from pilot-scale fermentation of food waste under sterile and nonsterile conditions. J. Chem. Technol. Biotechnol. 2020 ,
95, 3193–3201. [CrossRef]
176. Li, C.; Ong, K.L.; Cui, Z.; Sang, Z.; Li, X.; Patria, R.D.; Qi, Q.; Fickers, P .; Yan, J.; Lin, C.S.K. Promising advancement in fermentative
succinic acid production by yeast hosts. J. Hazard. Mater. 2021 ,401, 123414. [CrossRef]
177. Song, H.; Lee, S.Y. Production of succinic acid by bacterial fermentation. Enzyme Microb. Technol. 2006 ,39, 352–361. [CrossRef]
178. Putri, D.N.; Sahlan, M.; Montastruc, L.; Meyer, M.; Negny, S.; Hermansyah, H. Progress of fermentation methods for bio-succinic
acid production using agro-industrial waste by Actinobacillus succinogenes .Energy Rep. 2020 ,6, 234–239. [CrossRef]
179. E4tech; RE-CORD; WUR. “From the Sugar Platform to Biofuels and Biochemicals”. Final Report for the European Commission ; Contract
No. ENER/C2/423-2012/SI2.673791; European Commission: Luxembourg, 2015.
180. Pateraki, C.; Patsalou, M.; Vlysidis, A.; Kopsahelis, N.; Webb, C.; Koutinas, A.A.; Koutinas, M. Actinobacillus succinogenes :
Advances on succinic acid production and prospects for development of integrated bioreﬁneries. Biochem. Eng. J. 2016 ,112,
285–303. [CrossRef]
181. Dessie, W.; Xin, F.; Zhang, W.; Jiang, Y.; Wu, H.; Ma, J.; Jiang, M. Opportunities, challenges, and future perspectives of succinic
acid production by Actinobacillus succinogenes .Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2018 ,102, 9893–9910. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
182. Cok, B.; Tsiropoulos, I.; Roes, A.L.; Patel, M.K. Succinic acid production derived from carbohydrates: An energy and greenhouse
gas assessment of a platform chemical toward a bio-based economy. Biofuels Bioprod. Bioref 2014 ,8, 16–29. [CrossRef]
183. Ito, Y.; Hirasawa, T.; Shimizu, H. Metabolic engineering of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to improve succinic acid production based on
metabolic proﬁling. Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem. 2014 ,78, 151–159. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
184. Cheng, K.K.; Wang, G.Y.; Zeng, J.; Zhang, J.A. Improved succinate production by metabolic engineering. Biomed Res. Int. 2013 ,
2013 , 538790. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
185. Van De Graaf, M.J.; Valianpoer, F.; Fiey, G.; Delattre, L.; Schulten, E.A.M. Process for the Crystallization of Succinic Acid 2015.
US20150057425A1, 26 February 2015.Catalysts 2022 ,12, 234 23 of 23
186. Ahn, J.H.; Jang, Y.S.; Lee, S.Y. Production of succinic acid by metabolically engineered microorganisms. Curr. Opin. Biotechnol.
2016 ,42, 54–66. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
187. Stylianou, E.; Pateraki, C.; Ladakis, D.; Damala, C.; Vlysidis, A.; Latorre-S ánchez, M.; Coll, C.; Lin, C.S.K.; Koutinas, A. Bioprocess
development using organic biowaste and sustainability assessment of succinic acid production with engineered Yarrowia lipolytica
strain. Biochem. Eng. J. 2021 ,174, 108099. [CrossRef]
188. Vemuri, G.N.; Eiteman, M.A.; Altman, E. Succinate production in dual-phase Escherichia coli fermentations depends on the time of
transition from aerobic to anaerobic conditions. J. Ind. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2002 ,28, 325–332. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
189. Salma, A.; Abdallah, R.; Fourcade, F.; Amrane, A.; Djelal, H. A New Approach to produce succinic acid through a co-culture
system. Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol. 2021 ,193, 2872–2892. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
190. Kuenz, A.; Hoffmann, L.; Goy, K.; Bromann, S.; Prüße, U. High-level production of succinic acid from crude glycerol by a wild
type organism. Catalysts 2020 ,10, 470. [CrossRef]
191. Chen, P .; Tao, S.; Zheng, P . Efﬁcient and repeated production of succinic acid by turning sugarcane bagasse into sugar and support.
Bioresour. Technol. 2016 ,211, 406–413. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
192. Schroder, H.; Haefner, S.; Von Abendroth, G.; Hollmann, R.; Raddatz, A.; Ernst, H.; Gurski, H. Microbial Ssccinic Acid Producers
and Puriﬁcation of Succinic Acid. U.S. Patent 8,673,598, 18 March 2014.
193. Li, C.; Gao, S.; Yang, X.; Lin, C.S.K. Green and sustainable succinic acid production from crude glycerol by engineered Yarrowia
lipolytica via agricultural residue based in situ ﬁbrous bed bioreactor. Bioresour. Technol. 2018 ,249, 612–619. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
194. Jiang, Z.; Cui, Z.; Zhu, Z.; Liu, Y.; Tang, Y.J.; Hou, J.; Qi, Q. Engineering of Yarrowia lipolytica transporters for high-efﬁcient
production of biobased succinic acid from glucose. Biotechnol. Biofuels 2021 ,14, 1–10. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
195. Cui, Z.; Gao, C.; Li, J.; Hou, J.; Lin, C.S.K.; Qi, Q. Engineering of unconventional yeast Yarrowia lipolytica for efﬁcient succinic acid
production from glycerol at low pH. Metab. Eng. 2017 ,42, 126–133. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
196. Li, C.; Ong, K.L.; Yang, X.; Lin, C.S.K. Bio-reﬁnery of waste streams for green and efﬁcient succinic acid production by engineered
Yarrowia lipolytica without pH control. Chem. Eng. J. 2019 ,371, 804–812. [CrossRef]
197. Porro, D.; Branduardi, P .; Sauer, M.; Mattanovich, D. Old obstacles and new horizons for microbial chemical production. Curr.
Opin. Biotechnol. 2014 ,30, 101–106. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
198. Crater, J.S.; Lievense, J.C. Scale-up of industrial microbial processes. FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 2018 ,365, 1–5. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
199. Soares-Silva, I.; Ribas, D.; Sousa-Silva, M.; Azevedo-Silva, J.; Renduli´ c, T.; Casal, M. Membrane transporters in the bioproduction
of organic acids: State of the art and future perspectives for industrial applications. FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 2020 ,367, 1–15.
[CrossRef]
200. Lu, J.; Lv, Y.; Qian, X.; Jiang, Y.; Wu, M.; Zhang, W.; Zhou, J.; Dong, W.; Xin, F.; Jiang, M. Current advances in organic acid
production from organic wastes by using microbial co-cultivation systems. Biofuels Bioprod. Bioreﬁning 2020 ,14, 481–492.
[CrossRef]
201. Steiger, M.G.; Mattanovich, D.; Sauer, M. Microbial organic acid production as carbon dioxide sink. FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 2017 ,
364, 1–4. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
202. Branduardi, P .; Sauer, M. Microbial carbon dioxide ﬁxation: New tricks for an old game. FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 2018 ,365, 1–7.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]