NATURE BIOTECHNOLOGY   VOLUME 33   NUMBER 10   OCTOBER 2015  10611Metabolic and Biomolecular Engineering National Research Laboratory, 
Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering (BK21 Plus Program), 
Center for Systems and Synthetic Biotechnology, Institute for the BioCentury, 
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST), Daejeon, Republic 
of Korea. 2BioInformatics Research Center, KAIST, Daejeon, Republic of Korea. 
3BioProcess Engineering Research Center, KAIST, Daejeon, Republic of Korea. 
4The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Biosustainability, Technical University 
of Denmark, Hørsholm, Denmark. Correspondence should be addressed to S.Y.L. 
(leesy@kaist.ac.kr ).
Received 4 August 2014; accepted 23 August 2015; published online 8 October 
2015; doi:10.1038/nbt.3365Systems strategies for developing industrial microbial 
strains
Sang Yup Lee1–4 & Hyun Uk Kim1,2,4
Industrial strain development requires system-wide engineering 
and optimization of cellular metabolism while considering 
industrially relevant fermentation and recovery processes. It 
can be conceptualized as several strategies, which may be 
implemented in an iterative fashion and in different orders. The 
key challenges have been the time-, cost- and labor-intensive 
processes of strain development owing to the difficulties in 
understanding complex interactions among the metabolic, 
gene regulatory and signaling networks at the cell level, which 
are collectively represented as overall system performance 
under industrial fermentation conditions. These challenges can 
be overcome by taking systems approaches through the use 
of state-of-the-art tools of systems biology, synthetic biology 
and evolutionary engineering in the context of industrial 
bioprocess. Major systems metabolic engineering achievements 
in recent years include microbial production of amino acids 
(l-valine, l-threonine, l-lysine and l-arginine), bulk chemicals 
(1,4-butanediol, 1,4-diaminobutane, 1,5-diaminopentane, 
1,3-propanediol, butanol, isobutanol and succinic acid) and 
drugs (artemisinin).
The metabolic engineering literature is replete with studies describing 
microbial strains engineered to produce a chemical, fuel or material of 
economic interest, and yet relatively few such strains actually are ever 
scaled-up in an industrial context. Although conventional metabolic 
engineering studies have succeeded in developing microorganisms capa -
ble of overproducing bioproducts1, the current approach for developing 
an industrial product still requires a great deal of time and effort (e.g., 
50–300 person-years of work) and investment (up to several hundred 
million US dollars)1. One reason that the process of translation of aca -
demic projects is so challenging is that researchers often fail to con -
sider a fully integrated industrial bioprocess when developing microbial 
strains with new activities; on the other hand, many companies have 
in the past lagged behind academia in adopting state-of-the-art meta -
bolic engineering techniques. Thus, there is a need for academia and industry to enter into more active collaboration (as recently discussed2) 
and for a more rapid transfer of knowledge between the public and 
private sectors.
Since its formal recognition more than two decades ago3, metabolic 
engineering has evolved into a more systematic and high-throughput 
discipline, sometimes termed ‘systems metabolic engineering’4,5. 
This emerging discipline integrates traditional metabolic engineering 
approaches with other fields, such as systems biology (e.g., omics ana-
lysis and genome-scale computational simulation), synthetic biology 
(e.g., various molecular approaches, tools and pathway modules allow -
ing fine control and regulation of gene expression levels and precise 
genome engineering) and evolutionary engineering (e.g., laboratory 
evolution of cells for enhanced product tolerance), while continuing 
to consider upstream (strain development) to midstream (fermenta -
tion) to downstream (separation and purification) processes as a whole 
(Fig. 1 ). Implementation of such tools in a systems metabolic engi -
neering framework is already reaping dividends and has resulted in 
the development of Escherichia coli  strains overproducing l-valine6–8 
and l-threonine9,10 in 10 person-years—considerably fewer years than 
previously required to create high-performance industrial producer 
strains. Similar approaches have also enabled the successful develop -
ment of an increasing number of industrial strains capable of efficiently 
producing various bioproducts, such as 1,4-butanediol11, the antima -
larial drug artemisinin12 and succinic acid13,14.
Here, we discuss ten general strategies behind the successful develop -
ment of industrial microbial strains through systems metabolic engi -
neering. We illustrate their implementation using several case studies 
of microbial overproduction at large-scale: l-arginine15 (Box 1  and 
Fig. 2 ); 1,4-butanediol11 (Box 2  and Fig. 3 ); l-lysine16 and 1,5-diami -
nopentane17 (Box 3  and Fig. 4 ); l-valine6–8 (Supplementary Fig. 1 ); 
and l-threonine9,10 (Supplementary Fig. 2 ). Depending on the target 
strain, product, substrate, fermentation and downstream processes, 
such strategies are not always applied sequentially in the same order; 
often they may be implemented in an iterative manner18. By describ -
ing each strategy in turn, together with examples, we hope to inform 
readers as to the considerations important for the commercialization 
of strains developed in laboratories, which academic researchers may 
sometimes overlook. Details of specific techniques available for systems 
metabolic engineering have been thoroughly reviewed elsewhere, so are 
not discussed here (for reviews, see refs. 4, 19–26).
Project design (strategy 1)
In any metabolic engineering application, project objective and strain 
metrics should be designed based on various technical, economical, 
legal and regulatory factors. This is a process that is considered in 
detail in the private sector, but is often neglected in the academic 
PERSPECTIVE
npg © 2015 Nature America, Inc. All rights reserved.1062  VOLUME 33   NUMBER 10   OCTOBER 2015   NATURE BIOTECHNOLOGYmilieu. Once the bioproduct to be produced has been chosen, a pre -
liminary techno-economic analysis should be performed using sev -
eral candidate host strains under the most plausible scenarios (e.g., 
cost-effective carbon sources, aerobic versus anaerobic fermentation, 
batch, fed-batch or continuous culture, fermenters and downstream 
processing equipment to be employed)27. Depending on the natural or 
synthetic nature of the product, different strategies can be employed 
for strain design4. In all cases, three key performance indices, namely, 
product concentration (titer), yield, and productivity, need to be care -
fully estimated to assess whether the bioprocess can be industrially 
competitive. For the industrial fermentation mode, fed-batch culture 
is most often preferred over batch or continuous culture28, mainly 
owing to the higher product concentration, yield and productivity 
that can be achieved, flexibility of fermentation operation and reduced 
chance of contamination (compared with continuous culture).
Because at this stage, the best-performing microbial strain is not yet 
known, several candidate strains should be modeled and compared. 
Some of the most widely examined production microorganisms include 
E. coli , Corynebacterium  sp., Bacillus sp., Pseudomonas  sp., Clostridium 
sp. and Saccharomyces cerevisiae . Because abundant information on 
these microorganisms is available in the literature—from whole genome 
sequence to detailed metabolic characteristics—it is possible to esti -
mate performance metrics through genome-scale metabolic simulation. 
However, it should be noted that one can employ less studied or newly 
isolated microorganisms if much higher performance is expected; for 
example, a high C4 flux bacterium Mannheimia succiniciproducens  was 
isolated from the rumen of Korean cows and employed for succinic acid 
production at very high efficiencies13,14.
Beyond these technical aspects of project design, one must also 
consider economic aspects. Typically, products sold at greater mar -
ket premiums can tolerate lower performance metrics, whereas com -
petitive products with lower premiums, including bulk chemicals, 
require the achievement of near-theoretical maximum metrics for all performance indices (i.e., highest pos -
sible concentration, yield and productivity). 
It should be noted that titer, yield and pro -
ductivity are tightly linked to downstream 
process cost, substrate cost and bioreactor 
size, respectively29. Also, the high cost of 
expression systems requiring chemical induc -
ers like isopropyl b-d-1-thiogalactopyrano -
side (IPTG) usually precludes their use in 
industrial-scale fermentations (see strategy 
10, below).
Depending on the final product, another 
economic aspect that should be considered is 
the cost of any chemical modification required 
following biological production of precursors 
to efficiently yield final products. In many 
cases, one does not have to rely 100% on bio -
logical conversion. For example, bio-based 
nylon (polyamide 5/10), artemisinin, g-butyr -
olactone and hydrocarbons are produced by 
chemical conversion of microbially overpro -
duced precursors: 1,5-diaminopentane from 
Corynebacterium glutamicum17, artemisinic 
acid from S. cerevisiae12, 4-hydroxybutyric 
acid from M. succiniciproducens30 and ace -
tone-butanol-ethanol fermentation products 
of Clostridium acetobutylicum31, respectively.
A last economic aspect is where to locate a 
manufacturing facility. As early as possible, project design should con -
sider the optimal geographical location of a fermentation site because the 
cost of raw material transportation can be very high for countries where 
feedstocks are not abundantly available; in the case of South Korea, for 
example, most of the fermentation substrates are imported from outside 
the country.
Apart from the economic aspects, legal and regulatory considerations 
must also be incorporated into project design. If the intention is to take 
a project forward in an industrial context, an essential step is to protect 
intellectual property in the form of patents or trade secrets. Any project 
coming out of an academic laboratory that has aspirations to develop 
a commercial product should ensure that patents are filed before any 
public disclosure of the invention in the literature.
Finally, researchers should bear in mind the ‘use case’ for their end 
product and how this relates to international regulations. Microbial 
strains used in metabolic engineering are genetically modified organisms 
(GMOs), and, therefore they, and the products derived from them, fall 
under different GMO regulations in different jurisdictions. These regula -
tions are particularly stringent when the final intention is for the products 
to be used for human and/or animal consumption ( Box 1 and Fig. 2 ).
Selection of host strain (strategy 2)
Although E. coli  and S. cerevisiae  are often considered as workhorses 
for metabolic engineering due to the availability of a wide range of 
established tools, in certain cases other microorganisms may be more 
suitable host strains. For example, in the case of l-arginine, our group 
selected C. glutamicum  ATCC 21831 (AR0) as a host strain because 
it was already capable of producing 17 g/L of product by fed-batch 
culture15 (Box 1  and Fig. 2 ). If C. glutamicum  had been too difficult to 
metabolically engineer, it would have been necessary to explore other 
host strains. Another consideration is whether the organism can utilize 
the desired carbon feedstock. Evidently, all strains of a microbe are 
not equal; thus, performance of, and yield from, different strains of Separation & puri/f_ication
(downstream process)Fermentation
(midstream process)Strain development
(upstream process)
a
bSelection of a microbial host
Construction of a biosynthetic pathway
for a non-native bioproduct
Improvement of self-tolerance
against a bioproduct
Removal of negative regulations
Flux rerouting for cofactor 
and precursor optimization
Optimization of metabolic /f_luxes
through relevant biosynthetic pathways
Use of high-throughput tools 
for systems-level metabolic analysisUse of e ffective, cheap and 
easily obtainable carbon sources 
and chemically de/f_ined 
minimal medium
Optimization of culture conditions and 
feeding strategies
Performance of batch 
and fed-batch cultures
Evaluation of production performance
Scale-up of bioreactorsUse of e ffective, cheap and 
easily obtainable carbon sources 
and chemically de/f_ined 
minimal medium
Minimization of byp roducts
Optimization of culture condition
(low pH)
Iterative design and construction of strains
XX
Volume5 L50 L300 L1,500 L~240,000 L
Figure 1   Concept of the systems metabolic engineering framework. ( a) Three major bioprocess 
stages. ( b) Considerations in systems metabolic engineering to optimize the whole bioprocess. List of 
considerations for the strain development and fermentation contribute to improving microbial strain’s 
production performance (red), whereas those for the separation and purification help in reducing overall 
operation costs by facilitating the downstream process (blue). Some of the considerations can be 
repeated in the course of systems metabolic engineering.
PERSPECTIVE
npg © 2015 Nature America, Inc. All rights reserved.NATURE BIOTECHNOLOGY   VOLUME 33   NUMBER 10   OCTOBER 2015  1063more exotic organism previously intractable to genetic manipulation 
or changing the host strain to another that can be more easily engi -
neered. Other factors, such as carbon substrate utilization range, ease 
of fermentation in an inexpensive medium, ease of scale-up, require -
ment for anaerobic versus aerobic conditions and the suitability of cost-
effective downstream processes, need to be considered when selecting a 
host strain. For example, for the production of acids (e.g., lactic acid or 
succinic acid), microbial strains tolerant of low pH may be preferable 
because the purification of undissociated-acid product can be costly if 
fermentation is performed at around neutral pH.
Metabolic pathway reconstruction (strategy 3)
If metabolic pathways leading to the formation of a desired bioprod -
uct are absent in the candidate microbial host, the potential metabolic 
pathways need to be established in the strain by carefully examining 
the candidate enzymes and/or genes through mining genomes and 
metagenomes11,35,36. For obvious reasons, this strategy is not needed 
for producer organisms that already generate the desired product natu -
rally ( Box 1  and Fig. 2 ). In general, however, this strategy is extremely 
important in systems metabolic engineering due to our increasing 
interest in the biobased production of a diverse range of chemicals37 
and fuels38,39 that are either non-natural or inefficiently produced in 
natural hosts.a producer organism can vary substantially as can the ability of those 
strains to utilize different feedstocks.
Increasingly, the availability of tools to make a microorganism trac -
table to genetic manipulation is becoming less of an issue. With our 
ability to achieve genome-scale characterization in a short period of 
time32, rapid advances in systems biology now allow the use of rela -
tively unknown species as expression systems. Also, efficient synthetic 
biology tools, such as CRISPR (clustered, regularly interspaced, short 
palindromic repeats)-Cas9 (CRISPR-associated protein)-based sys -
tems are making microorganisms that were previously relatively recal -
citrant amenable to gene manipulation33,34. For example, our group 
has selected the native succinic acid producer bacterium M. succinici -
producens  as a host strain for metabolic engineering, with the goal 
of overproducing succinic acid13. In this case, by developing genetic 
manipulation tools from scratch, followed by systems metabolic engi -
neering, we were able to succeed in fully exploiting its high succinic 
acid production capability; an engineered M. succiniciproducens  strain 
was capable of producing succinic acid concentrations of ~100 g/L, 
close to the theoretical maximum yield, and a productivity >10 g/L/h 
in fed-batch culture, demonstrating higher performance indices than 
other microorganisms.
Thus, as new microbial species continue to emerge as new poten -
tial production hosts, one has a choice to make: developing tools for a Scale-up and 
optimization of  the 
bioprocessFlux rerouting for 
cofactor and/or  
precursor optimization
Troubleshooting:  
optimization of  /f_luxes 
and culture condition  Removal of  negative  
regulatory circuits
Production  
optimal?
YN
Selection of
a host strain
Medium   designNative  
producer ?
Improving product 
toleranc eSelection of
a bioproduc t
YN
Metabolic pathway  
reconstruction
Genome anal ysis of 
the evolved strain
00.40.81.21.6
020406080100
AR1 AR 2A R3 AR 4A R4*A R5 AR6Yield (g/g) and producti vity g/(L/h )Concentration (g/L )
Engineered strain sg6p
f6p
akgargC argJ argB argD argF
citr arggdhglu
glnglnAPentose phosphate pathwa yGlycolysis
TCA cycleargR
farRpgi     (ATG → GTG)Glucos e
(and sucros eforAR4,AR5andAR6strains )
(G166C  →C166 G)
argG argH P
Peftu
sodtkt tal zwfopcA pgl Psodab
cbiosynthetic  
pathwayNcgl1221
(D87G)
XXX
4. Genom e sequenci ng:
Point mutations introduc ed in  L-arginine bios ynthetic pathwa y:
argF(G166C ), argR (D87G),  carB(T1085I)5. Knoc kouts of argR and farR
13. Microarra y and real -time PCR analyses
14. Fed-batch culture
using a larg e-scale (1,500 L) bioreacto r(Step 7)(Step 8)(Step 11)(Step 12)
(Step 6)
(Step 5)
(Step 4)Fed-batch cultures
for each constructed strainSystem -wide anal ysis2. 
ATCC 21831 (AR0 )
3. Random  mutagenesi s
with L-arginine  analog s6. Downregulation of pgi
9. Deletion of Ncgl1221
7. Overexpression of PPP genes
8. Use of sucros e
10. Removal of the point mutation
(G166C ) in argF
11. Overexpression of  carAB
12. Overexpression of  argG HXXStrategy  1
Strategy  2
Strategy 3
Strategy  4Strategy 5
Strategy 6
Strategy 9
Strategy 10Strategy  3
Strategy  4Strategy 7 & 8L-arginin e
L-arginin eCorynebacterium glutamicum
Figure 2   General scheme of systems metabolic engineering and its case study on the overproduction of l-arginine using C. glutamicum15. (a) Flowchart 
illustrates the use of each of the ten strategies, except strategy 3, which was not required as C. glutamicum  was a native producer that did not require medium 
design. Metabolic engineering experiments (steps) conducted are shown next to their corresponding strategy (box). ( b) A metabolic map of C. glutamicum  
corresponding to the metabolic engineering changes made in a. Dotted lines with ‘X’ indicate inactivated reactions, and those without ‘X’ indicate 
downregulated reactions. ( c) l-arginine concentrations, yields and productivities of the engineered C. glutamicum  strains obtained from their fed-batch 
cultures using 5-liter bioreactors. Each step of systems metabolic engineering shown in a and its corresponding experiments ( b) and resulting strains ( c)  
share the same colors. Only glucose was used as a feedstock for the AR1, AR2, AR3 and AR4 strains, whereas glucose and sucrose were simultaneously 
used for the AR4*, AR5 and AR6 strains (note that AR4 and AR4* are the same strain, the latter with a different substrate). Upper and lower bars in c for 
each strain represent l-arginine concentrations and yields, respectively; line graph with yellow diamonds represents l-arginine productivities of different 
engineered strains. PPP, pentose phosphate pathway; akg, a-ketoglutarate; arg, l-arginine; citr, l-citrulline; f6p, d-fructose 6-phosphate; g6p, l-glucose 
6-phosphate; gln, l-glutamine; glu, l-glutamate.
PERSPECTIVE
npg © 2015 Nature America, Inc. All rights reserved.1064  VOLUME 33   NUMBER 10   OCTOBER 2015   NATURE BIOTECHNOLOGYthereby endowing more diverse metabolic reactions, even those not 
found in nature, to be performed35,43. Furthermore, if carbon substrate 
utilization was not considered in choosing the host strain in performing strategy 2 (see above), selecting the least expensive substrate available 
at this stage can reduce the overall operation cost of the bioprocess.
Thanks to the relatively low cost of DNA synthesis and rapid 
advances in synthetic biology research, efficient techniques for the 
combinatorial assembly of genes, operons and pathways are becoming 
readily available
44. Even so, it is still difficult to predict how to construct 
such pathways for the most efficient production of a desired chemical. 
For example, a multigene pathway can be designed in many ways by 
assessing different genes encoding enzymes of the same function from 
different sources, by varying the order of the genes, by using separate promoters versus operons and by varying expression levels for each Heterologous reactions and pathways can be introduced to a can -
didate host strain based not only on intuitive biological knowledge 
but also on the results of genome mining and cheminformatic analy -
ses
35. Several chemo-bioinformatic tools for this purpose have been 
developed ( Box 4  and Table 1 ). Construction of such heterologous 
pathways extends our ability to produce other diverse bulk chemicals and drugs, including 1,5-diaminopentane
17 (Fig. 4 ), adipic acid40, 
3-hydroxypropionic acid41, artemisinic acid (a precursor of antima -
larial artemisinin)12 and antibiotic erythromycin A and its derivatives42 
(Supplementary Fig. 3 ). Once constructed, heterologous reactions 
need to be optimized by several well-known techniques, such as gene expression optimization and codon optimization
11, according to the 
fermentation results. It should also be noted that native enzymes can 
be evolved or even redesigned to modify their substrate specificities, 
A challenge in the development of l-arginine-overproducing 
C. glutamicum  was to achieve a production performance better 
than previous studies at laboratory scale and reproducibly at 
pilot-scale ( Fig. 2 ). The final, high-performance AR6 strain was 
developed in about 9 person-years by the nine strategies described below (strategy 3 was skipped).
• Strategy 1. The end market for l-arginine was identified as for 
non-food, non-animal feed applications, such as for use as a 
plant growth stimulant68, thus the use of a genetically modified 
C. glutamicum  strain was considered acceptable. The preferred 
carbon substrates were derived from glucose and/or sucrose from industrially relevant feedstocks, corn starch hydrolysate 
and/or decomposed raw sugar from sugarcane. The initial target 
concentration, yield and productivity in the available 1,500-liter 
demo-plant scale fermenter were set at >80 g/L, 0.3~0.4 g/g 
and ~1.0 g/L/h, respectively.
• Strategy 2. C. glutamicum  ATCC 21831 (AR0) was selected 
for its ability to produce a substantial amount of l-arginine and 
to use the preferred carbon substrates, corn starch hydrolysate and/or decomposed raw sugar; the organism can also be 
metabolically engineered using reasonably well-established gene 
manipulation tools.
• Strategy 3 was skipped because l-arginine is the natural product 
of the strain.
• Strategy 4. Random mutagenesis was performed to select an  
l-arginine-tolerant strain using l-arginine analogs, isolating 
the AR1 strain capable of producing 34.2 g/L of l-arginine 
in fed-batch culture ( Fig. 2c ), a more than twofold higher 
concentration than that obtained with the AR0 strain. 
Subsequent genome sequencing and analysis of the AR1 strain 
revealed mutations in genes associated with the l-arginine 
biosynthetic pathway.
• Strategy 5. Negative feedback regulation in the AR1 strain  
was removed by inactivating two regulatory genes, argR and 
farR. The resulting AR2 strain was able to produce 61.9 g/L of 
l-arginine by fed-batch culture ( Fig. 2c ).
• Strategy 6. Downregulation of the pgi gene was achieved by 
replacing its start codon ATG with GTG to reroute fluxes toward 
the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) for more NADPH, 
while still permitting flux through glycolysis for good enough 
cell growth. As a result, the AR3 strain capable of producing 
80.2 g/L of l-arginine by fed-batch culture was developed.• Strategy 7. After fed-batch cultures of AR3 revealed decreased  
consumption of glucose substrate and consequently longer 
fermentation times than AR2, it was found that the flux through 
the PPP was not streamlined after rerouting the flux from the 
glycolytic pathway. Thus, an operon associated with PPP flux was 
amplified using a stronger sod promoter. The resulting AR4 strain 
gave the highest l-arginine productivity yet of 0.85 g/L/h ( Fig. 2c ); 
however, l-arginine titer and yield were lower than those obtained 
with the AR3 strain, suggesting the need for further optimization.
• Strategy 8. Fed-batch culture of the AR4 strain using sucrose and  
glucose as carbon sources resulted in the production of 71.7 g/L 
of l-arginine with productivity and yield of 0.89 g/L/h and 0.31 
g/g, respectively; these values are all higher than those obtained by the fed-batch culture using glucose as a single carbon source.
• Strategy 9. The AR4 strain was subjected to final rounds of  
engineering by analyzing its fed-batch fermentation profiles in connection with metabolic characteristics. Because fed-batch 
culture of the AR4 strain consistently showed the excretion of 
l-glutamate, which can be further converted to l-arginine for 
an improved l-arginine yield and titer, the l-glutamate exporter 
was deleted. Analysis of genes associated with l-arginine 
biosynthesis using the sequenced genome data of the AR0 and 
AR1 strains also identified two additional gene manipulation targets: removal of a negative mutation in the argF gene and 
overexpression of the carAB  genes. The AR5 strain constructed 
this way produced 82 g/L of 
l-arginine, with a yield of 0.35 g/g by 
fed-batch culture. Finally, to solve the problem of the excretion of about 5 g/L of citrulline, two rate-controlling enzymes encoded 
by the argGH  genes were overexpressed using a strong promoter, 
resulting in the AR6 strain. Fed-batch culture of the AR6 strain allowed production of 92.5 g/L of 
l-arginine with a high yield of 
0.40 g/g and productivity of 1.26 g/L/h. Intended changes in the 
AR6 strain were confirmed with transcriptome analysis, enzyme 
assay and real-time PCR.
• Strategy 10. When the AR6 strain was cultured in a fed-
batch mode in a 1,500-liter bioreactor, 81.2 g/L of l-arginine 
was produced with a yield and productivity of 0.353 g/g and 
0.91 g/L/h, respectively. Even though these values are somewhat lower than those obtained by the lab-scale fed-batch culture, they met the project objectives defined in strategy 1 (high enough for 
initial industrial-scale fermentation). The AR6 strain’s production 
performance was found to be highly reproducible even under 
scale-up fermentation.Box 1  Metabolic engineering of a C. glutamicum  strain overproducing l-arginine15
PERSPECTIVE
npg © 2015 Nature America, Inc. All rights reserved.NATURE BIOTECHNOLOGY  VOLUME 33   NUMBER 10   OCTOBER 2015  1065(or analog) tolerance at high concentrations does not necessarily cor -
relate with an ability to synthesize product at increased specific produc -
tivity and yield. One can, of course, design the bioprocess by coupling in 
situ product removal with fermentation if no better ways of increasing 
the product tolerance are identified.
Removing negative regulatory circuits limiting overproduction 
(strategy 5)
Negative feedback loops are ubiquitous features of biological networks, influencing gene expression and signal transduction, generating oscil -
lations and modulating noise. Cells have evolved their metabolic, gene regulatory and signaling networks over millennia to optimally allocate 
resources so as to maximize growth and prevent overproduction of 
metabolites that penalize fitness.
Typical negative regulatory circuits relevant to the metabolic engineer 
involve transcriptional attenuation control and feedback inhibition during 
the synthesis of amino acids. Transcriptional attenuation control is often 
relieved by removing genes encoding regulators that repress amino acid biosynthesis or replacing the promoters of metabolic enzymes with consti -
tutive ones. Feedback inhibition can be handled in several different ways. If residues responsible for the feedback inhibition are already known, point 
mutations can be introduced by means of site-directed mutagenesis. If they 
are unknown, two other approaches can be taken. First, homology-based rational mutation screening, or even random mutagenesis, followed by screening at the enzyme level can be performed. Second, the production 
host can be mutagenized to increase product tolerance (see strategy 4), 
and then the relevant regulated genes or even the whole-genome can be sequenced to identify responsible mutations for increased product toler -
ance, which often results from the removal of feedback inhibition. In some gene in the pathway. As there is currently no easy way of reducing the time to develop optimal synthetic pathways other than massively parallel experiments, this step is a bottleneck in pathway design and is 
an active subject of research.
Increasing tolerance to product (strategy 4)
It is important to increase tolerance of the strain to the desired product, 
which can be performed at any stage of strain development
45. When this 
is performed early in strain development, it can open up metabolic flux 
to the formation of a desired product. However, increasing product toler -
ance is typically only recommended after the expression system under study has been optimized to generate product at a requisite level—say arbitrarily 50–80% of the level that starts to inhibit cell growth. The usual approach for developing a product-tolerant strain is serial subcultur -
ing of cells with increasing concentrations of product or analogs with or without mutagen treatment, followed by identifying those cells that outgrow (i.e., grow faster)
46. By repeating this process, the tolerance level 
can gradually be increased.
Improved product tolerance has also been demonstrated using rational  
engineering approaches, such as the use of an efflux pump for biofuel in E. coli
47 or manipulation of ionic membrane gradients of S. cerevisiae 
for ethanol48. Another example is l -valine production, where overex -
pression of genes encoding the l-valine exporter led to an increase in 
l-valine production titer by more than 40% in E. coli6. Thus, engineering 
efflux pumps to improve the product tolerance and/or titer is a strategy that deserves investigation.
An important caveat to either of these approaches is that producer 
cells selected from serial subculturing or rational engineering do not necessarily overproduce the product. This is because enhanced product Table 1  Key features and performance metrics of pathway modeling tools used in systems metabolic engineering.
Chemo-bioinformatics tools for 
pathway constructionConstraint-based reconstruction and analy -
sis of genome-scale metabolic models13C-metabolic flux analysis Elementary mode analysis
Key features Use of reaction rules that 
describe rearrangements of atoms 
observed in biological system
Enumeration of pathways from 
one metabolite to another using 
reactions rules
Selection of enumerated candi -
date pathways using criteria often 
involving total pathway length and 
thermodynamic feasibility of the 
predicted reactionsSimulation using numerical optimization  
Description of comprehensive gene-protein-
reaction associations in metabolic network model
Easy implementation without kinetic 
parameters except for uptake/secretion 
data of several metabolites
Overall good accuracy for predicting mid-
exponential growth and primary metabolite 
production
Application as a platform for omics data 
integration
Experimentally well validated for metabolic 
studies of various prokaryotes and eukary -
otes, and increasingly of human cells/tissuesImplementation of isotopic-
labeling experiments and 
analytical measurements—direct biochemical evidence 
of metabolic status
Implementation of model 
fitting with 
13C-labeling 
data and statistical analysis to estimate in vivo  fluxes
Greatest accuracy of estimating in vivo  flux 
distribution
Increasingly widely used 
in metabolic studies of 
prokaryotes and eukaryotes 
including mammalian cellsAnalysis of stoichiometric matrix 
using linear algebra
Easy implementation without 
kinetic parameters and any model -
ing assumptions except for reac -
tion reversibility—by far simplest 
approach among these four tools
Comprehensive analysis of metabolic 
network topology through calculation of all the unique flux vectors
Easy applicability to organisms not 
characterized well
Limitations Expensive computation
Lack of consideration of biologi -
cal feasibility (e.g., prediction of 
completely new proteins that can -
not be created in vivo  or in vitro ; 
incompatibility of host metabo -
lism with heterologous reactions)
Very few experimental validations 
conducted so farInaccurate prediction of regulation-asso -
ciated phenotypes; downregulation and 
amplification of genes; growth and produc -
tion phenotypes outside mid-exponential 
phase (e.g., stationary phase growth and 
secondary metabolites)
Necessity of manual curation to improve 
the model accuracy, a time-consuming 
procedureDifficult implementation—
proficiency in both ana -
lytical and computational 
processes required
Use of a small-scale meta -
bolic networkAmbiguous criteria for 
model structure whose 
slight changes can yield 
very different in vivo  flux 
estimationsUse of a small-scale metabolic net -
work—expensive computation for large metabolic networks
Difficulty in analysis of the generated 
flux vectors in biological context
Motivation for selecting the 
tool in systems 
metabolic engineeringPathway reconstruction with unknown reactions
Detailed reaction mechanism 
needed
Prediction of genome-wide counterintuitive 
gene manipulation targets
Metabolic analysis needed, but isotopic 
labeling experiments unavailable
Pathway design largely with homologous 
reactions and without detailed reaction 
mechanismAccurate metabolic analysis 
needed
Isotopic labeling experi -
ments availableGenome information and/or genome-
scale metabolic model unavailable
Prediction of gene manipulation 
targets largely from central carbon 
metabolism
PERSPECTIVE
npg © 2015 Nature America, Inc. All rights reserved.1066  VOLUME 33   NUMBER 10   OCTOBER 2015   NATURE BIOTECHNOLOGYthe desired product can be generated through the original, designed 
pathways.
Several approaches can be taken to manipulate cofactor and/or pre -
cursor availability. Gene knockout is the most obvious choice to reroute fluxes to increase the level of cofactors or precursors by removing com -
peting pathways (strategy 6 in Boxes 1 –3 and Figs. 2 –4). Gene knock-
down, however, using synthetic small regulatory RNAs
49,50, becomes 
useful if the genes to be removed are essential (strategy 6 in Boxes 1 and  3 
and Figs. 2  and 4 ). Also, use of synthetic small regulatory RNAs and other 
high-throughput genome-scale engineering tools discussed in strategy 9 (see below) enables high-throughput screening of strains having various combinations of downregulated genes. These parallel high-throughput methods are extremely powerful as they overcome the disadvantages of 
gene knockout experiments, which are often time-consuming, labori -
ous, sequential, irreversible, nontransferable to another strain and only 
applicable to nonessential genes
49,50. Once combinatorial knockdown 
targets are identified using plasmid-based experiments, industrial strains can be developed by transferring that genotype into the chromosome for 
more stable operation.
Using an alternative enzyme or pathway of heterologous origin can 
boost the product formation rate
11. Also, cofactor (e.g., NADH or 
NADPH) specificity of the enzyme can be delicately manipulated, for 
example, by swapping in a cofactor that optimizes performance or devel -
oping an enzyme capable of using both NADH and NADPH as a cofac -
tor, to maximize redox power available for the enzyme while improving production performance
51,52. However, introduction of heterologous cases, a feedback-resistant heterologous gene, if available, can replace the 
native feedback-controlled gene in the production host. After removal 
of these negative regulatory circuits, amino acid biosynthetic genes can be further upregulated as discussed in strategy 9 (see below).
Thus, removal or attenuation of negative regulatory circuits is 
essential for overproduction of amino acids and polyamide precur -
sors, as our group and others have demonstrated for the production of l-arginine in C. glutamicum  (Fig. 2 ), l-lysine in C. glutamicum ( Fig. 4 ), 
l-valine in E. coli
6 (Supplementary Fig. 1 ) and l-threonine in E. coli  
(Supplementary  Fig. 2 ). Negative regulatory feedback mechanisms 
are also common in other metabolic pathways of industrial interest; 
thus, they have been engineered in strains overproducing aliphatic 
alcohols ( Box 2  and Fig. 3) and dicarboxylic acids (e.g., adipic acid40; 
Supplementary Fig. 3 ). Such regulatory engineering will be increas -
ingly performed as more regulatory mechanisms related to the forma -
tion of other products are uncovered.
Rerouting fluxes to optimize cofactor and/or precursor 
availability (strategy 6)
Cofactors play an essential role in many biochemical reactions, and 
their availability are thus key consideration for a metabolic engineer. For example, NADH, NADPH, ATP and coenzyme A (CoA) are cofactors involved in hundreds of reactions. Also, many intracellular metabolites serve as precursors to the desired product. It is often 
necessary to reroute the metabolic fluxes in a pathway to optimize 
the availability of cofactors and precursor metabolites, even though There were two major challenges in developing a strain for 
1,4-butanediol production. First, a new synthetic pathway needed 
to be designed and constructed to enable production of a non-
natural chemical. Second, high demand for redox power needed to 
be addressed at the whole metabolism level because 1,4-butanediol 
is a highly reduced product. The development of an efficient 
1,4-butanediol-producing microorganism ( Fig. 3 ) can thus be 
considered a landmark of systems metabolic engineering that addressed both of these challenges. The exact person-years spent 
on this project is not known.
• Strategies 1 and 2 were not described in the literature. For the  
establishment of a new synthetic pathway, the recombinant workhorse E. coli  is commonly employed as the first choice, at 
least if it meets the criteria needed for the desired task.
• Strategy 3. The SimPheny Biopathway Predictor ( http://www.
genomatica.com/ ) was used to facilitate reconstructing the 
1,4-butanediol biosynthetic pathway, which is absent in the host E. coli . Based on the predicted reactions, a set of heterologous 
genes were screened and their expression levels were optimized (pZA33S-sucCD-sucD-4hbd/sucA and pZE23S-cat2-002C).
• Strategy 4. The original study11 did not discuss in detail the issue 
of product tolerance probably because the titer of 1,4-butanediol 
at that time was not high enough. However, it is known that 
Genomatica developed a strain highly tolerant to 1,4-butanediol.
• Strategy 5. The native E. coli  lpdA gene was replaced with the 
mutated Klebsiella pneumonia lpdA  gene to provide cells with 
pyruvate dehydrogenase activity under oxygen-limited conditions.
• Strategy 6. Flux rerouting toward 1,4-butanediol through the  
oxidative branch of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle was achieved by knocking out metabolic genes, all predicted from 
in silico  genome-scale metabolic simulation (strategy 9).• Strategy 7. The fluxes toward the oxidative branch of the  
TCA cycle were reinforced by deleting the arcA gene to avoid 
aerobic stress and mutating the gltA gene to inhibition by 
NADH. Furthermore, a reaction converting 4-hydroxybutyryl-
CoA into 4-hydroxybutyraldehyde, which was presumed to 
be a bottleneck, was optimized by rescreening responsible 
enzymes, subsequently identifying and employing a codon-optimized Clostridium beijerinckii aldehyde dehydrogenase 
(025B). The use of this enzyme led to a slightly increased 
1,4-butanediol yield, but much less ethanol byproduct, 
compared with the codon-optimized C. acetobutylicum adhE2  
gene initially used.
• Strategy 8. Several different carbon sources other than  
glucose were explored, including sucrose, xylose and biomass hydrolysate (i.e., a crude extract containing glucose, xylose, 
glycerol, acetic acid, 5-hydroxymethylfurfural, furfural, 
oligosaccharides and acetyls).
• Strategy 9. The gene knockout prediction algorithm  
OptKnock69 was applied to an E. coli  genome-scale metabolic 
model to identify metabolic genes that were candidates for 
deletion. Four genes were selected and removed, including 
genes encoding alcohol dehydrogenase ( adhE ), pyruvate 
formate lyase ( pfl), lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh) and malate 
dehydrogenase ( mdh). Microaerobic fed-batch culture of 
the final strain produced over 18 g/L of 1,4-butanediol from glucose in a 2-liter fermenter ( Fig. 3c ).
• Strategy 10. In 2013, Genomatica (San Diego) announced  
its first successful microbial production of 1,4-butanediol on a commercial scale (greater than five-million pounds; 
http://www.genomatica.com/news/press-releases/successful-
commercial-production-of-5-million-pounds-of-bdo/ ).Box 2  Metabolic engineering of an E. coli strain overproducing 1,4-butanediol11
PERSPECTIVE
npg © 2015 Nature America, Inc. All rights reserved.NATURE BIOTECHNOLOGY  VOLUME 33   NUMBER 10   OCTOBER 2015  1067conditions, of intermediate strains during strain development24. By doing 
so, problems, such as potential metabolic bottlenecks and byproduct for -
mation in fed-batch conditions, can be prioritized for further metabolic 
engineering of the production strain toward enhanced product formation.
A key point here is that analysis of an intermediate strain grown under 
fed-batch culture conditions at each stage facilitates evaluation and/or 
diagnosis of production performance measured by performance indices, 
such as productivity, yield and titer; this then leads to new objectives for 
the next round of metabolic engineering. For example, in our engineering of a high-yield l-arginine producer ( Box 1  and Fig. 2), when fed-batch 
culture revealed that the substrate glucose consumption rate was low in one strain, use of a stronger promoter enabled greater flux through the 
pentose phosphate pathway, which then resulted in a strain with much 
higher productivity; however, this strain had lower yield and product titer, again prompting diagnosis and further optimization. Box 3  describes a 
similar approach, including changes to direct flux toward end product 
and boost flux through the pentose phosphate pathway for l-lysine pro -
duction in C. glutamicum. Thus, flux to end product can be optimized 
by removing bottlenecks, diverting flux from branch pathways or even 
stopping secretion of byproducts ( Box 2  and Fig. 3 ), which can reduce the 
operation costs for product separation and purification in downstream 
processes
54,55 (Fig. 1 ).
Diagnosis and optimization of microbial culture conditions (strategy 8)
Although undesirable characteristics that emerge during the fed-batch cultivation of an intermediate strain can be corrected by gene manipu-lation (strategy 7), another approach is to optimize culture conditions enzymes into a production host needs careful scrutiny because it can trig -
ger unexpected inhibitory metabolic reactions caused by the promiscuous activities of the introduced enzymes
53. In general, cofactor and precursor 
optimization usually requires more system-wide approaches than removal of pathway-specific negative regulatory circuits, because in the former 
case, global mass, energy and redox balances need to be considered. In 
the case of engineering enhanced l-arginine production, even though the central carbon flux was rerouted toward the pentose phosphate pathway to increase the intracellular NADPH pool necessary for boosting product 
formation, glycolysis was not completely blocked so as to prevent substan -
tial growth retardation (even after the flux rerouting; Box 1  and Fig. 2 ).
Another striking example is the reversal of the b-oxidation cycle in E. 
coli, which led to efficient production of alcohols and carboxylic acids 
with varied carbon-chain lengths directly from acetyl-CoA
39. In this work, 
genes responsible for the b -oxidation cycle were constitutively expressed 
by mutating or inactivating repressive regulatory genes, and different termination enzymes were overexpressed for the production of specific 
target products.
Diagnosing and optimizing metabolic fluxes toward product 
formation (strategy 7)
The metabolic status of the strain needs to be systematically diagnosed and optimized not only to remove any flux bottlenecks but also to send as much flux as possible toward the formation of the end product. This strat -
egy should be performed under conditions that are as similar as possible to 
the final industrial fermentation conditions. Because standard industrial 
fermentation operations are often performed in a fed-batch mode, it is essential to perform fed-batch cultures, at least under laboratory-scale 
Scale-up and 
optimization of  the 
bioprocessFlux rerouting for 
cofactor and/or  
precursor optimization
Troubleshooting:  
optimization of  /f_luxes 
and culture cond ition Removal of  negative 
regulatory circuits
Production 
optim al?
YNSelection of
a host strain
Medium  designNative  
producer ?
Improving product 
toleranc eSelection of
a bioproduc t
YN
Genome anal ysis of 
the evolved strainakg4hbal d
bdosucAssa 4hbGlycolysis
TCA cycleGlucos e
(and additionall y,sucros e,xyloseand biomas ssugars) ab
1,4-butanediol 
biosynthetic pathway
Metabolic pathwa y 
reconstruction
System -wide analysis succo a4hbcoaBDO concentration (g/L )
Engineered strainsccscB cscK cscA cscR P
4hbd cat2 ald
sucDadhE
(native) sucC Dpyr
acco a ethlac
for
mdhadhEpﬂBldhAK. pneumonia
lpdA(D354K )
01020
Base strain
(batch )ECKh-138 (fed -
batch on
glucose)ECKh-422
(025B; fed-
batch on
glucose)maloacit arcA
succXX
X
X X
(025B)
(Step 7)
(Step 4)1. 1,4- butanediol
2.  E. coli MG1655  lacIQ
3. Use of  SimPheny  
Biopathway  Predicto r
4. Screening of 
heterologous genes and 
optim ization of their 
expressions (pZA33 S-
sucC D-sucD -4hbd/sucA
and pZE23S -cat2-002C)7. Replacem ent with 
a mutated K. pneumonia lpdA  
5. OptKnock  to predict
gene knockout target s
12. 13C-metabolic /f_lux analysis 
to confor m /f_lux routes
15. 2 L microaerobi c fed-batch 
fermentationgltA
(R163L )Strategy 1
Strategy 2
Strategy 3
Strategy 4Strategy 3
Strategy 4Strategy 5
Strategy  6
Strategy  9
Strategy 10Strategy 7 & 88. Microaerobic cultivatio n
10. Knoc kout of arcA
11. Point mutation of  gltA
13. Rescreening 
alcohol and aldehyde 
dehyd rogenases
(002C  →025B )
14. Use of  sucrose, xylose
and biom ass sugars
as feedstocks6. Knoc kouts of adhE, pﬂB, 
and ldhA
9. Knock out of  mdh
(Step 13)
Figure 3   General scheme of systems metabolic engineering and its case study on the overproduction of 1,4-butanediol using E. coli11. (a) Flowchart 
illustrates how strategies 1–3, 5–10 were applied. Metabolic engineering experiments (steps) conducted are shown next to their corresponding strategy (box). 
(b) A metabolic map of E. coli corresponding to the metabolic engineering changes made in a. Dotted lines with ‘X’ indicate inactivated reactions and those 
without ‘X’ indicate downregulated reactions. ( c) Titers of 1,4-butanediol produced by the middle and final engineered E. coli  strains from their batch and 
fed-batch cultures. 4hb, 4-hydroxybutyrate; 4hbald, 4-hydroxybutyraldehyde; 4hbcoa, 4-hydroxybutyryl-CoA; accoa, acetyl-CoA; akg, a-ketoglutarate; bdo, 
1,4-butanediol; cit, citrate; eth, ethanol; for, formate; lac, lactate; mal, malate; oa, oxaloacetate; pyr, pyruvate; ssa, succinyl semialdehyde; succ, succinate; 
succoa, succinyl-CoA.
PERSPECTIVE
npg © 2015 Nature America, Inc. All rights reserved.1068  VOLUME 33   NUMBER 10   OCTOBER 2015   NATURE BIOTECHNOLOGYSystem-wide gene manipulation to further increase 
production (strategy 9)Once the above interventions have been carried out, a system-wide 
examination of metabolism can be carried out to identify potential 
gene manipulation targets that may further enhance production capability. This strategy encompasses the final rounds of engineer -
ing required to construct the industrial strain. They are performed by 
taking systems and synthetic biology approaches, such as cultivation 
profile-based system-wide analyses
7, high-throughput genome-scale 
engineering26, omics-based approaches6 and/or in silico metabolic 
simulations6,56 (Box 4 ). In this context, the use of an increasing array 
of high-throughput genome-scale engineering tools, such as (co-selection) multiplex automated genome engineering
57,58, trackable 
multiplex recombineering59 and synthetic small regulatory RNAs49,50, 
enables the isolation of mutants with desired phenotypes by identi -
fying optimal combinations of genetic targets within a short period 
of time.
The current challenge for wider application of these methods is to 
overcome low transformation efficiencies of host strains other than 
E. coli  and to develop screening methods for mutants overproducing 
a desired bioproduct. Among these, genome-scale metabolic simula-tions have been successfully used for developing industrial strains, whereas high-throughput genome-scale engineering tools are coming into more widespread use.
It is important to stress that although strategy 9 comprises all the final 
rounds of engineering, the computational tools may be applied at a rela -
tively early stage of strain development. Thus, in the case of l-arginine 
production, system-wide gene analysis and/or manipulation was applied in an industrially relevant manner. As with other aspects of the systems metabolic engineering scheme, choice of alternative substrates should 
take into account such considerations as the availability of feedstock and 
its economics. In general, chemically defined media are desirable for both laboratory- and industrial-scale fermentations because they allow precise metabolic analysis of a production host and greater experimental repro -
ducibility compared with complex media. However, for industrial-scale 
fermentations, medium cost is often considered more important than the 
nature of culture media being either defined, semi-defined or complex. Thus, it is important to develop an industrial strain capable of efficiently producing a desired product using rather impure low-price substrates, 
in particular, for the production of rather inexpensive bulk products.
For the microbial production of l-arginine, the decreased product titer 
and yield of the AR4 strain (strategy 7, Box 1 ) appeared to be caused by 
too much increased biomass formation, although the strain showed the 
desired productivity due to the higher glucose uptake and specific l-argi -
nine production rates. Therefore, we reexamined substrate utilization to assess whether this could be used to influence the growth rate of the AR4 strain. Because the Corynebacterium  strain employed for l-arginine 
production was found to grow more slowly on sucrose than on glucose, 
we investigated the effects of employing a mixture of sucrose and glu -
cose ( Box 1  and Fig. 2 ). An additional rationale behind our selection of 
sucrose and glucose was that these carbohydrates are present in two of 
the most popular industrial carbon feedstocks, raw sugar and corn starch hydrolysate, respectively. The use of different carbon sources other than 
glucose was also studied for culturing the engineered, 1,4-butanediol-
producing E. coli to use industrially preferred fermentation substrates 
(Box 2  and Fig. 3 ).Our aim in this work was to develop the first genetically defined 
strain that overproduces l-lysine, rather than employing a random 
mutagenesis and selection approach. Furthermore, this l-lysine-
overproducing strain was further engineered to produce the bio-nylon monomer 1,5-diaminopentane. Along with our previous studies on 
bio-based production of 1,4-diaminobutane and 1,5-diaminopentane 
by engineered E. coli
4, this research demonstrated the potential of 
microbial production of nylon in a biosustainable manner ( Fig. 4 ).
• Strategy 1 and 2. The wild-type C. glutamicum  strain was selected 
for l-lysine production, and the C. glutamicum  strain LYS-12 
engineered to overproduce l-lysine was used as the starting strain 
to produce 1,5-diaminopentane because l-lysine is a direct 
precursor of 1,5-diaminopentane.
• Strategy 3. A codon-optimized heterologous ldcC gene encoding 
lysine decarboxylase was introduced into the C. glutamicum  LYS-
12 strain to produce 1,5-diaminopentane.
• Strategy 4 was not reported in the literature.
• Strategy 5. The lysC gene encoding aspartokinase was mutated by 
nucleotide substitution (C932T) to release feedback inhibition by 
l-lysine and l-threonine in C. glutamicum  for enhanced l-lysine 
production.
• Strategy 6. Fluxes to l-lysine were reinforced by overexpressing 
ddh and removing competing pathways (knockout of pck 
and downregulation of hom). Flux rerouting to the pentose 
phosphate pathway (PPP) was conducted for NADPH 
generation by overexpressing the gluconeogenic gene fbp. 
For 1,5-diaminopentane production, NCgl1469  encoding 
N-acetyltransferase and lysE encoding l-lysine exporter were both 
removed as they divert l-lysine away from 1,5-diaminopentane.• Strategy 7. For l-lysine production, the engineered 
C. glutamicum  went through metabolic flux optimization by 
overexpressing genes involved in the l-lysine biosynthetic 
pathway ( dapB , lysA and the mutated lysC), mutating a pycA 
gene and downregulating the icd gene, which increased fluxes 
toward l-lysine biosynthesis. As in the case of l-arginine 
production, the PPP operon was amplified in the engineered C. glutamicum  strain to enhance 
l-lysine production. For 
1,5-diaminopentane production, amplification of its exporter 
(cg2893 ) led to further improvement in the production titer.
• Strategy 8. A complex medium based on molasses was used  
for the fed-batch culture of C. glutamicum  LYS-12 in order to 
evaluate its l-lysine production performance in an industrial 
setting. Similarly, industrial glucose medium was used for cultivating 1,5-diaminopentane-overproducing C. glutamicum  
DAP-16 strain. As a result, C. glutamicum  LYS-12 and 
C. glutamicum  DAP-16 strains produced 120 g/L of 
l-lysine 
and 88 g/L of 1,5-diaminopentane, respectively, by fed-batch cultures using industrial-like media ( Fig. 4c ).
• Strategy 9. The ideal flux distributions obtained through  
elementary model analysis and the in vivo  flux distributions 
obtained by 13C-metabolic flux analysis of the strain were 
compared to identify gene manipulation targets for l-lysine 
production in C. glutamicum . The comparison suggested 
changes in the following pathways: first, upregulation of 
the lysine biosynthetic pathway; second, upregulation of 
anaplerotic carboxylation; third, downregulation of the 
TCA cycle; fourth, upregulation of the PPP; and fifth, 
downregulation of anabolic pathways.
• Strategy 10 was not reported in these studies.Box 3  Metabolic engineering of a C. glutamicum  strain overproducing l-lysine16 and bio-nylon17
PERSPECTIVE
npg © 2015 Nature America, Inc. All rights reserved.NATURE BIOTECHNOLOGY  VOLUME 33   NUMBER 10   OCTOBER 2015  1069(instead of plasmid-mediated engineering) and gene-level engineering 
(e.g., knockout of an entire gene) rather than changes of a few base pairs (e.g., single-point mutations) can mitigate the loss of the desired 
phenotype. 
In industrial fermentation, companies regularly isolate pure colonies 
of high performance at the end of the fermentation to maintain the 
desired strain phenotype in subsequent fermentations. As mentioned 
earlier, inducers, such as IPTG, should not be used in industrial fermen -
tation; constitutive promoters are standard practice for gene expression 
in industrial contexts. Other synthetic biology–based regulatory cir -
cuits, such as an auto-inducer, which dynamically detects the presence of specific target molecules produced in vivo
61, are also being actively 
developed. These new tools will be useful in fine-controlling the fluxes during fermentation on a large scale.
Because of the time and effort required to perform fed-batch cultures, 
even on a laboratory scale, many researchers end up carrying out only flask or batch cultures during the strain development. This increases the probability of failing in scale-up fermentation. Of course, even if 
fed-batch cultures have been explored in development in an academic 
setting, it is the job of industrial fermentation engineers to fine-tune the fermentation conditions (e.g., using industrial-grade carbon substrates and other medium components and manipulating pH, temperature and oxygen transfer) to match or even exceed the high 
performance of laboratory-scale fed-batch culture.to intermediate strains before the final industrial strain of microbe, AR6, 
was obtained (Box 1  and Fig. 2 ).
Scale-up fermentation of the developed strain and diagnosis (strategy 10)
The developed microbial strain should be validated in a pilot plant–
scale or demo plant–scale fermenter because additional problems can be found during the scale-up cultivation of the developed strain. This process can be laborious if the pilot-scale fermentation results vary 
widely from the laboratory-scale fermentation results. The extent of 
such discrepancies will be different from one strain to another, and thus they cannot be easily predicted until actual pilot-scale fermentation is performed. Discrepancies in strain performance are found mainly due to different mixing and aeration in laboratory-scale and pilot-scale fer -
menters, and thus aerobic fermentation, which is sensitive to the oxygen transfer rate, is much more often affected by scale-up issues.
Another critical problem is reversion of a high-performance strain 
back to the low-performance strain through the loss of produc -
tion capacity and phenotype alteration during the course of indus -
trial fermentation, which can be caused by genetic instability and/or fermentation conditions having different mass transfer rates of nutrients and oxygen, and substrate and product concentration profiles in the industrial-sized fermenter
60. At the moment, no tools exist that guar -
antee 100% strain stability, but permanent chromosomal manipulation 
Scale-up and 
optimization of  the 
bioproces sFlux rerouting for 
cofactor and/or  
precursor optimization
Troubleshooting: 
optimization of  /f_luxes 
and culture condi tion Removal of  negative  
regulatory circuits
System -wide analysis 
Production 
optim al?
YNMedium  desig nNative  
producer ?
Improving product 
toleranc eSelection of
a bioproduc t
YN
Genom e anal ysis of 
the evolved strainab
cakg
Glycolysis
TCA cycleoaasp
dhdp
asps aaspp
PsodlysC(T311I )pyrpepfbpf6p
thdpdaplysdapentkt tal zwfopcApgl Psod
adap
thr
biosynthetic  L-lysine
pathwa yhom (V59A)lysE
PsoddapBddhX 2lysAX 2Pentose phosphate pathwa y
PeftuldcCopt
pckPeftufbp
icit
icd(ATG → GT G)XX XGlucose and molasses
4. Point mutation of lysC
13C-metabolic /f_lux analy sis
for each mutant strain18. Use of  a codo n-optimized
E. coli ldcCgeneMetabolic pathwa y 
reconstructionPsodcg2893
NCgl14695. Overexpression of ddh
6. Knock out of  pck
10. Downregulation of  hom
13. Overexpression of fbp
19. Knock out of  NCgl1469
20. Knock out of  lysE
3. Anal ysis of in vivo /f_lux 
distribution using
13C-metabolic /f_lux and 
elem entary  mode anal yses2. C. glutamicum ATCC 13032
17. C. glutamicum  LYS-121. 
16. Bio-nylon (PA5.10)
PsodpycA (P458S)
accoag6p
XSelection of
a host strainStrategy 1
Strategy 2
Strategy 3
Strategy 4Strategy 3
Strategy 4Strategy 5
Strategy 6
Strategy 9
Strategy 10Strategy 7 & 8 7. Overexpression of
the mutated lysC
8. Overexpression of dapB
9. Overexpression of lysA
11. Overexpression of  pycA
(point mutation and 
promoter change)
12. Downregulation of  icd
14. Overexpression of PPP genes
15. Fed-batch culture using a 
molasses- based medium
21. Overexpression of  cg2893
22. Fed-batch culture using an  
industrial glucose medium
23. Chem ical processes to obtain diam inopentane  
and sy nthesiz e its pol ymer (PA5.1 0)FinalL-lysine 
overproducer 
(LYS-12)Final 
diam inopentane  
overproducer  
(DAP -16)
Titer (g/L )1 20 88
Yield (g/g glucose) 0.55 0.29
Productivity  (g/L/h )4 .0 2.2L-lysine
Figure 4   General scheme of systems metabolic engineering and its case study on the overproduction of l-lysine16 and bio-nylon17 using C. glutamicum . 
(a) Flowchart illustrates the use of each of the ten strategies, except strategies 4 and 10, which were not reported. Although strategy 10 was not discussed, 
chemical polymerization studies were conducted to synthesize bio-nylon from 1,5-diaminopentane and diacid. The whole procedure was repeated twice, 
first for the production of l-lysine and second for the production of 1,5-diaminopentane, a monomer of bio-nylon. The wild-type C. glutamicum  ATCC 13032 
strain was used to develop the l-lysine overproducer and the l-lysine overproducer LYS-12 was used as the starting host for 1,5-diaminopentane production. 
Metabolic engineering experiments (steps) conducted are shown next to their corresponding strategy (box). ( b) A metabolic map of C. glutamicum  ATCC 
13032 and LYS-12 strains corresponding to the metabolic engineering changes made in a. Dotted lines with ‘X’ indicate inactivated reactions and those 
without ‘X’ indicate downregulated reactions. Note that the point mutant in the lysC gene (i.e., T311I) is shown in red to indicate removal of the feedback 
inhibition on this gene, whereas its new promoter (e.g., sod promoter) is in purple to present overexpression of this gene in the later steps. adap, N-acetyl-
diaminopentane; akg, a-ketoglutarate; asp, l-aspartate; aspp, l-4-aspartyl phosphate; aspsa, l-aspartate semialdehyde; dap, d,l-diaminopimelate; dapen, 
1,5-diaminopentane; dhdp, 2,3-dihydrodipicolinate; f6p, d-fructose 6-phosphate; fbp, d-fructose 1,6-bisphosphate; g6p, d-glucose 6-phosphate; icit, 
isocitrate; lys, l-lysine; oa, oxaloacetate; pep, phosphoenolpyruvate; pyr, pyruvate; thdp, tetrahydrodipicolinate; thr, l-threonine. ( c) Production performances 
of the final C. glutamicum  strains, each overproducing l-lysine and 1,5-diaminopentane, from their fed-batch cultures.
PERSPECTIVE
npg © 2015 Nature America, Inc. All rights reserved.1070  VOLUME 33   NUMBER 10   OCTOBER 2015   NATURE BIOTECHNOLOGYthe catalytic efficiency of the enzymes they are working with, the 
range of chemical reactions carried out, and the compatibility of the desired product and its associated new pathway with a microbial 
host’s metabolism. For the production of non-natural products for 
which biosynthetic enzymes and pathways are unknown, chemo-informatic and enzyme engineering approaches need to be employed to better understand the substrate promiscuity of native and engi -
neered enzymes. A recent work on the production of thebaine and hydrocodone (both opioid compounds) using an engineered yeast strain expressing 21 and 23 genes, respectively, encoding inherent yeast enzymes and heterologous enzymes from plants, mammals and bacteria, nicely demonstrates such approaches
62. Also, interactions 
between a novel pathway and the host metabolism need to be sys -
tematically studied53.
Second, optimization of metabolic fluxes is frequently complicated 
by a trade-off between the formation of biomass and target product, 
redox balances and complex inhibitory regulation. Although meta -
bolic problems have been systematically handled using genome-scale 
metabolic modeling and simulation, more often than not, regulatory effects have not. Whole-cell modeling
63 that also captures other cel-
lular processes, such as regulatory and signaling circuits, in addition to metabolism can be useful in tackling these metabolic engineering 
problems.
Third, enhancement of product tolerance still relies on random 
mutagenesis and/or evolutionary engineering rather than rational  
design because the molecular mechanisms involved are mostly unknown to us. Combined use of transport protein engineering and 
rationally designed strain evolution will continue to play impor -
tant roles in developing product-tolerant strain. Some intracellular enzymes might also become inhibited when product concentration becomes higher, which also needs to be overcome by evolution of 
enzymes or the use of more tolerant enzymes of heterologous origin.
Fourth, most industrial strains engineered at process are not neces -
sarily capable of fully using newly emerging, more sustainable non-
food or waste substrates. As the impetus grows to use sustainable 
feedstocks, further effort will need to be placed into developing strains 
capable of using alternative carbon substrates, including natural gas, food wastes, non-food lignocellulosic hydrolysates of various ori -
gins and even carbon dioxide. Methods for preparing fermentable substrates from these alternative carbon substrates need to be much 
improved. Research effort needs to be exerted to develop optimally 
combined physicochemical and biological methods to derive ferment -
able carbon sources from them. In the case of food waste, various stakeholders need to participate in its collection and processing, fol-
lowing accepted policy to make such use economically and socially 
acceptable.
Fifth, bioprocesses use large volumes of water, which makes it dif -
ficult to homogeneously mix nutrients and oxygen within the fermen -
ter and to separate the product cost effectively. This will become an 
increasing challenge due to decreasing worldwide water resources. 
One important solution is ‘use and reuse’ of the fermentation broth; that is, recycling fermentation broth after fermentation
64. Other inter -
esting solutions include using seawater and halophilic host strains for fermentation
65 and thermotolerant strains to reduce the use of 
cooling water66.
Sixth, overall limitations in strain development come from 
incomplete knowledge of the link between microbial genotype and 
 phenotype. Application of carefully designed genetic perturbations 
to the cell and observation of the consequent phenotypes67 as well 
as integrative analysis of various omics data32 should help better 
link microbial genotype and phenotype. All of these lead to a grand Another major challenge in industrial-scale fermentation is con -
tamination control. Phage infection is a well-known problem for many microbial fermentations. In the case of l-arginine production, 
C. glutamicum  has a longer doubling time than E. coli (~1.5–2.5 h ver -
sus 20–30 min), and thus is subject to a higher contamination risk. Also, excessive use of certain preferred medium constituents, such as 
corn steep liquor, complicates downstream processing because of their 
complex components and their tendency to increase medium viscos -
ity, which hinders complete sterilization of the fermenter and affects subsequent rounds of fermentation. Although these issues have been 
successfully addressed in industry through experience, researchers 
should consider these factors carefully during strain development and establishment and operation of the fermentation plant.
Conclusions and perspectives
In this Perspective, we describe ten strategies that comprise systems 
metabolic engineering for industrial strain development. These strat -
egies encompass project design, host selection, metabolic pathway reconstruction, regulatory engineering, byproducts removal, energy 
and redox requirements, flux distribution at the branch points, carbon 
source and nutrient utilization, fermentation profile and character -
istics, product (and metabolic intermediate) export and import, the 
toxicity of the product and its intermediate metabolites, and  r ecovery 
and purification of the target product. It is obvious that microbial production of different types of bioproduct (both complex and simple molecules) will require adjustment of the aforementioned strategies 
of systems metabolic engineering. Nonetheless, we anticipate that the 
increasing adoption of the strategies described here will allow devel -
opment of strains capable of efficiently producing various types of bioproducts on an industrial scale with reduced effort, time and cost.
Nonetheless, systems metabolic engineering is not without its chal -
lenges. First, metabolic engineers must work within the confines of Several pathway modeling tools have contributed to systems 
metabolic engineering, including but not limited to the following: 
chemo-bioinformatic tools for pathway construction35, constraint-
based reconstruction, and analysis (COBRA) of genome-scale metabolic models
56, 13C-metabolic flux analysis70 and 
elementary mode analysis71. The chemo-bioinformatic tools for 
pathway construction use predefined reaction rules to enumerate 
candidate biosynthetic pathways from a target chemical product to a known precursor metabolite
35. Use of reaction rules makes 
this approach chemically logical, and most distinct from the other 
three approaches. Genome-scale metabolic models, 13C-metabolic 
flux analysis and elementary mode analysis are rooted in the same mathematical logic that develops a stoichiometric matrix (i.e., a 
metabolic network) describing a set of metabolic reactions with 
stoichiometric coefficients
71,72. However, the stoichiometric 
matrix is processed in different ways in these tools, which are selected based on the study objective and the availability of 
experimental support. All these tools can help identify optimal 
metabolic pathways to drive fluxes from one metabolite (e.g., 
precursor) to another (e.g., target product) in common. However, 
because each tool is based on different logic, each has different 
strengths and thus works best under different circumstances. Key 
features and performance metrics of these tools are summarized 
in Table 1 .Box 4  Pathway modeling tools in systems 
metabolic engineering
PERSPECTIVE
npg © 2015 Nature America, Inc. All rights reserved.NATURE BIOTECHNOLOGY  VOLUME 33   NUMBER 10   OCTOBER 2015  107117. Kind, S. et al. From zero to hero—production of bio-based nylon from renewable 
resources using engineered Corynebacterium glutamicum . Metab. Eng.  25, 113–123 
(2014).
18. Lee, S.Y ., Lee, D.Y. & Kim, T.Y. Systems biotechnology for strain improvement. Trends 
Biotechnol.  23, 349–358 (2005).
19. Medema, M.H., van Raaphorst, R., T akano, E. & Breitling, R. Computational tools for the 
synthetic design of biochemical pathways. Nat. Rev. Microbiol.  10, 191–202 (2012).
20. Paddon, C.J. & Keasling, J.D. Semi-synthetic artemisinin: a model for the use of syn -
thetic biology in pharmaceutical development. Nat. Rev. Microbiol.  12, 355–367 
(2014).
21. Esvelt, K.M. & W ang, H.H. Genome-scale engineering for systems and synthetic biology. 
Mol. Syst. Biol.  9, 641 (2013).
22. Y adav, V.G., De Mey, M., Lim, C.G., Ajikumar, P.K. & Stephanopoulos, G. The future 
of metabolic engineering and synthetic biology: towards a systematic practice. Metab. 
Eng. 14, 233–241 (2012).
23. Cobb, R.E., Si, T . & Zhao, H. Directed evolution: an evolving and enabling synthetic 
biology tool. Curr. Opin. Chem. Biol.  16, 285–291 (2012).
24. Lee, S.Y . High cell-density culture of Escherichia coli . Trends Biotechnol.  14, 98–105 
(1996).
25. Lee, B.R., Cho, S., Song, Y ., Kim, S.C. & Cho, B.K. Emerging tools for synthetic genome 
design. Mol. Cells  35, 359–370 (2013).
26. Song, C.W ., Lee, J. & Lee, S.Y. Genome engineering and gene expression control for 
bacterial strain development. Biotechnol. J.  10, 56–68 (2015).
27. Zhuang, K.H. & Herrgård,  M.J. Multi-scale exploration of the technical, economic, and 
environmental dimensions of bio-based chemical production. Metab. Eng.  31, 1–12 
(2015).
28. Croughan, M.S., Konstantinov , K.B. & Cooney, C. The future of industrial bioprocessing: 
batch or continuous? Biotechnol. Bioeng.  112, 648–651 (2015).
29. V an Dien, S. From the first drop to the first truckload: commercialization of microbial 
processes for renewable chemicals. Curr. Opin. Biotechnol.  24, 1061–1068 (2013).
30. Choi, S. et al.  Production of 4-hydroxybutyric acid by metabolically engineered 
Mannheimia succiniciproducens and its conversion to g -butyrolactone by acid treat-
ment. Metab. Eng.  20, 73–83 (2013).
31. Anbarasan, P. et al. Integration of chemical catalysis with extractive fermentation to 
produce fuels. Nature  491, 235–239 (2012).
32. G uan, Y., Dunham, M., Caudy, A. & Troyanskaya, O. Systematic planning of genome-scale 
experiments in poorly studied species. PLOS Comput. Biol.  6, e1000698 (2010).
33. Cobb, R.E., W ang, Y. & Zhao, H. High-efficiency multiplex genome editing of 
Streptomyces species using an engineered CRISPR/Cas system. ACS Synth. Biol.  4, 
723–728 (2015).
34. T ong, Y., Charusanti, P., Zhang, L., Weber, T. & Lee, S.Y. CRISPR-Cas9 based engineer -
ing of actinomycetal genomes. ACS Synth. Biol. doi:10.1021/acssynbio.5b00038   
(25 March 2015).
35. Shin, J.H., Kim, H.U., Kim, D.I. & Lee, S.Y. Production of bulk chemicals via novel 
metabolic pathways in microorganisms. Biotechnol. Adv.  31, 925–935 (2013).
36. Lee, J.W ., Kim, T.Y., Jang, Y.S., Choi, S. & Lee, S.Y. Systems metabolic engineering 
for chemicals and materials. Trends Biotechnol.  29, 370–378 (2011).
37. Lee, J.W ., Kim, H.U., Choi, S., Yi, J. & Lee, S.Y. Microbial production of building block 
chemicals and polymers. Curr. Opin. Biotechnol.  22, 758–767 (2011).
38. Choi, Y .J. & Lee, S.Y. Microbial production of short-chain alkanes. Nature  502, 571–
574 (2013).
39. Dellomonaco, C., Clomburg, J.M., Miller , E.N. & Gonzalez, R. Engineered reversal of 
the b-oxidation cycle for the synthesis of fuels and chemicals. Nature  476, 355–359 
(2011).
40. Y u, J.L., Xia, X.X., Zhong, J.J. & Qian, Z.G. Direct biosynthesis of adipic acid from a 
synthetic pathway in recombinant Escherichia coli . Biotechnol. Bioeng.  111, 2580–
2586 (2014).
41. Borodina, I. et al. Establishing a synthetic pathway for high-level production of 
3-hydroxypropionic acid in Saccharomyces cerevisiae  via b-alanine. Metab. Eng.  27, 
57–64 (2015).
42. Jiang, M. & Pfeifer , B.A. Metabolic and pathway engineering to influence native and 
altered erythromycin production through E. coli . Metab. Eng.  19, 42–49 (2013).
43. Zhang, K., Li, H., Cho, K.M. & Liao, J.C. Expanding metabolism for total biosynthe -
sis of the nonnatural amino acid L-homoalanine. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA  107, 
6234–6239 (2010).
44. Smanski, M.J. et al. Functional optimization of gene clusters by combinatorial design 
and assembly. Nat. Biotechnol.  32, 1241–1249 (2014).
45. L ing, H., Teo, W., Chen, B., Leong, S.S. & Chang, M.W. Microbial tolerance engi -
neering toward biochemical production: from lignocellulose to products. Curr. Opin. 
Biotechnol. 29, 99–106 (2014).
46. Utrilla, J. et al. Engineering and adaptive evolution of Escherichia coli  for D-lactate 
fermentation reveals GatC as a xylose transporter. Metab. Eng.  14, 469–476 (2012).
47. Dunlop, M.J. et al. Engineering microbial biofuel tolerance and export using efflux 
pumps. Mol. Syst. Biol.  7, 487 (2011).
48. Lam, F .H., Ghaderi, A., Fink, G.R. & Stephanopoulos, G. Biofuels. Engineering alcohol 
tolerance in yeast. Science  346, 71–75 (2014).
49. Na, D. et al. Metabolic engineering of Escherichia coli  using synthetic small regulatory 
RNAs.  Nat. Biotechnol.  31, 170–174 (2013).
50. Y oo, S.M., Na, D. & Lee, S.Y. Design and use of synthetic regulatory small RNAs to 
control gene expression in Escherichia coli . Nat. Protoc. 8, 1694–1707 (2013).
51. King, Z.A. & Feist, A.M. Optimal cofactor swapping can increase the theoretical yield  
for chemical production in Escherichia coli  and Saccharomyces cerevisiae . Metab. 
Eng. 24, 117–128 (2014).seventh challenge of developing industrial chassis strains that can be 
easily used to swap in different pathways and as the starting point for developing industrial strains capable of producing novel chemicals 
and biomaterials. This final challenge may well be insurmountable, at 
least in terms of there being one, unique chassis strain. An alternative might be the creation of chassis strains that work for different product groups (e.g., aromatic chemicals, C4 chemicals or fatty acid–derived 
products).
As systems metabolic engineering is applied more widely, we expect 
rapid progress in addressing the above challenges. Together with an 
increasing body of knowledge on metabolic systems in a diverse array of microbial species and strains, a greater appreciation and application 
of the strategies described here will galvanize industrial strain develop -
ment. Greater adoption of these strategies will also become imperative 
for accelerating the development of innovative products in a biosus -
tainable manner to meet the needs of society in the coming decades.
Note: Any Supplementary Information and Source Data files are available in the 
online version of the paper .
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank Seok Hyun Park, Sol Choi, Joungmin Lee, Chan Woo Song, Jae Ho Shin and Won Jun Kim for thoughtful discussions. This work was supported by the Technology Development Program to Solve Climate Changes on Systems Metabolic Engineering for Biorefineries (NRF-2012M1A2A2026556) and by Intelligent Synthetic Biology Center through the Global Frontier Project (2011-0031963) from the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning (MSIP) through the National Research Foundation (NRF) of Korea. This work was also supported by the Novo Nordisk Foundation.
COMPETING FINANCIAL INTERESTS
The authors declare no competing financial interests.
Reprints and permissions information is available online at http://www.nature.
com/reprints/index.html .
1. H ong, K.K. & Nielsen, J. Metabolic engineering of Saccharomyces cerevisiae : a key cell 
factory platform for future biorefineries. Cell. Mol. Life Sci.  69, 2671–2690 (2012).
2. Pronk, J.T . et al. How to set up collaborations between academia and industrial biotech 
companies. Nat. Biotechnol.  33, 237–240 (2015).
3. B ailey, J.E. Toward a science of metabolic engineering. Science 252, 1668–1675 
(1991).
4. Lee, J.W . et al. Systems metabolic engineering of microorganisms for natural and non-
natural chemicals. Nat. Chem. Biol.  8, 536–546 (2012).
5. Sagt, C.M. Systems metabolic engineering in an industrial setting. A ppl. Microbiol. 
Biotechnol.  97, 2319–2326 (2013).
6. Park, J.H., Lee, K.H., Kim, T .Y. & Lee, S.Y. Metabolic engineering of Escherichia coli  for 
the production of L-valine based on transcriptome analysis and in silico gene knockout 
simulation. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.  USA 104, 7797–7802 (2007).
7. Park, J.H., Kim, T .Y., Lee, K.H. & Lee, S.Y. Fed-batch culture of Escherichia coli  for 
L-valine production based on in silico  flux response analysis. Biotechnol. Bioeng.  108, 
934–946 (2011).
8. Park, J.H., Jang, Y .S., Lee, J.W. & Lee, S.Y. Escherichia coli  W as a new platform strain 
for the enhanced production of L-valine by systems metabolic engineering. Biotechnol. 
Bioeng.  108, 1140–1147 (2011).
9. Lee, K.H., Park, J.H., Kim, T .Y., Kim, H.U. & Lee, S.Y. Systems metabolic engineering 
of Escherichia coli  for L-threonine production. Mol. Syst. Biol. 3, 149 (2007).
10. Lee, J.W . et al. Development of sucrose-utilizing Escherichia coli  K-12 strain by cloning 
b-fructofuranosidases and its application for L-threonine production. Appl. Microbiol. 
Biotechnol.  88, 905–913 (2010).
11. Yim, H. et al.  Metabolic engineering of Escherichia coli  for direct production of 
1,4-butanediol. Nat. Chem. Biol.  7, 445–452 (2011).
12. Paddon, C.J. et al.  High-level semi-synthetic production of the potent antimalarial 
artemisinin. Nature 496, 528–532 (2013).
13. Lee, S.J., Song, H. & Lee, S.Y . Genome-based metabolic engineering of Mannheimia 
succiniciproducens  for succinic acid production. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.  72, 1939–
1948 (2006).
14. Becker, J. et al. Systems-wide analysis and engineering of metabolic pathway fluxes 
in bio-succinate producing Basfia succiniciproducens . Biotechnol. Bioeng.  110, 
3013–3023 (2013).
15. Park, S.H. et al. Metabolic engineering of Corynebacterium glutamicum  for L-arginine 
production. Nat. Commun.  5, 4618 (2014).
16. Becker , J., Zelder, O., Häfner, S., Schröder, H. & Wittmann, C. From zero to hero—
design-based systems metabolic engineering of Corynebacterium glutamicum  for 
L-lysine production. Metab. Eng.  13, 159–168 (2011).
PERSPECTIVE
npg © 2015 Nature America, Inc. All rights reserved.1072  VOLUME 33   NUMBER 10   OCTOBER 2015   NATURE BIOTECHNOLOGY62. G alanie, S., Thodey, K., Trenchard, I.J., Filsinger, I.M. & Smolke, C.D. Complete 
biosynthesis of opioids in yeast. Science  349, 1095–1100 (2015). 
63. Karr, J.R. et al. A whole-cell computational model predicts phenotype from genotype. 
Cell 150, 389–401 (2012).
64. Hsiao, T .Y., Glatz, C.E. & Glatz, B.A. Broth recycle in a yeast fermentation. 
Biotechnol. Bioeng.  44, 1228–1234 (1994).
65. Y in, J., Fu, X.Z., Wu, Q., Chen, J.C. & Chen, G.Q. Development of an enhanced 
chromosomal expression system based on porin synthesis operon for halophile 
Halomonas sp. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol.  98, 8987–8997 (2014).
66. Caspeta, L. et al. Biofuels. Altered sterol composition renders yeast thermotolerant. 
Science  346, 75–78 (2014).
67. Bonneau, R. et al. A predictive model for transcriptional control of physiology in a 
free living cell. Cell 131, 1354–1365 (2007).
68. X ia, J., Yamaji, N. & Ma, J.F. An appropriate concentration of arginine is required 
for normal root growth in rice. Plant Signal. Behav.  9, e28717 (2014).
69. Burgard, A.P ., Pharkya, P. & Maranas, C.D. Optknock: a bilevel programming frame -
work for identifying gene knockout strategies for microbial strain optimization. Biotechnol. Bioeng.  84, 647–657 (2003).
70. Antoniewicz, M.R. 13C metabolic flux analysis: optimal design of isotopic labeling 
experiments. Curr. Opin. Biotechnol.  24, 1116–1121 (2013).
71. T rinh, C.T., Wlaschin, A. & Srienc, F. Elementary mode analysis: a useful meta -
bolic pathway analysis tool for characterizing cellular metabolism. Appl. Microbiol. 
Biotechnol.  81, 813–826 (2009).
72. Kim, H.U., Kim, T .Y. & Lee, S.Y. Metabolic flux analysis and metabolic engineering 
of microorganisms. Mol. Biosyst.  4, 113–120 (2008).52. R ellos, P., Ma, J. & Scopes, R.K. Alteration of substrate specificity of Zymomonas 
mobilis  alcohol dehydrogenase-2 using in vitro  random mutagenesis. Protein Expr. 
Purif.  9, 83–90 (1997).
53. Kim, J. & Copley, S.D. Inhibitory cross-talk upon introduction of a new metabolic 
pathway into an existing metabolic network. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA  109, 
E2856–E2864 (2012).
54. Jantama, K. et al.  Eliminating side products and increasing succinate yields in 
engineered strains of Escherichia coli C. Biotechnol. Bioeng.  101, 881–893 (2008).
55. Kim, T .Y., Park, J.M., Kim, H.U., Cho, K.M. & Lee, S.Y. Design of homo-organic 
acid producing strains using multi-objective optimization. Metab. Eng.  28, 63–73 
(2015).
56. Lewis, N.E., Nagarajan, H. & Palsson, B.O. Constraining the metabolic genotype-
phenotype relationship using a phylogeny of in silico  methods. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 
10, 291–305 (2012).
57. Wang, H.H.  et al.  Programming cells by multiplex genome engineering and acceler -
ated evolution. Nature  460, 894–898 (2009).
58. Wang, H.H. et al.  Genome-scale promoter engineering by coselection MAGE. Nat. 
Methods  9, 591–593 (2012).
59. W arner, J.R., Reeder, P.J., Karimpour-Fard, A., Woodruff, L.B. & Gill, R.T. Rapid 
profiling of a microbial genome using mixtures of barcoded oligonucleotides. Nat. 
Biotechnol.  28, 856–862 (2010).
60. Hollinshead, W ., He, L. & Tang, Y.J. Biofuel production: an odyssey from metabolic 
engineering to fermentation scale-up. Front. Microbiol. 5, 344 (2014).
61. Dahl, R.H. et al.  Engineering dynamic pathway regulation using stress-response 
promoters. Nat. Biotechnol.  31, 1039–1046 (2013).
PERSPECTIVE
npg © 2015 Nature America, Inc. All rights reserved.